Personal Reflection:
Professor Trillo's critique of community service is that this doesn't really solve the problem. We could donate thousands of dollars, give dozens of free meals to the poor, but the majority of these will remain poor even if you give them enough money to live in a house for a month. Faced with this problem, Professor Trillos says that sometimes it is better to stop and think about what the root of the problem is, and how community service comes in various forms such as doing research, that can be very much more effective than traditional service. By doing research and trying to find the root of the problem (usually systematic) we could attack or improve the source of the issue, instead of simply going to help people in need at the moment.

Personally, I had never thought that research was a form of service before, and the truth is that I think it makes more sense than doing community service, which more than once I have seen how it does not make any change in the problem on a large scale. Yes, you can help one person. But what happens when there are hundreds or thousands who need help, and what happens when in 20 years the problem still exists?

We can not say that community service is useless either, because it is not, as I said, it is something that can help one or 2 people at the moment. But it does not solve the root of the problem. I also think that doing research is something much more difficult and complex, since sometimes the causes for an effect can be several things that are connected, it is not only hard to discover the true cause, but also solving or improving it can also be. Since usually these lead to make changes in a system that has already been established for a long time. Sometimes the cause is easy and clear, but most of the time it may be a set of many things that are difficult to change from one day to the next. Without going too further, the problem of refugees is that the majority of these are people who escaped war from their home countries. How do you solve a war where you have no power nor voice in that country? 

My conclusion is that both should exist and be done. But without a doubt more research should be done than traditional community service. This way it is possible to change the future of many people and for the next generations. I agree with the critique.

Debunking John Lennon’s Killer Conspiracy
Introduction
The 1980s in the United States was the beginning of a chaotic burst of speculation made by the people who were terrified by The Cold War. The United States was in opposition to the Soviet Union; Capitalism vs Communism. During this time, various mysterious and suspicious events occurred, and not a lot of people were convinced by the mainstream story. Cases such as the assassination of JFK, The Moon Hoax, The Roswell Crash, etc. But the most significant and impactful case in the music sector at that time, was the murder of John Lennon.
John Lennon is remembered as one of the greatest artists of all time. Not only by being one of the members of The Beatles, but also with his solo and shared career with his wife, Yoko Ono. John Lennon through his solo/shared albums took the opportunity to manifest his personal and political beliefs.
On December 8, 1980 in New York City, 40-year-old John Lennon was assassinated. The killer, Mark David Chapman, stayed at the scene until the police arrived. Society was filled with questions as to why he did it. Conspiracy theories didn't wait to appear around the media. One of the first conspiracy theories of Chapman was published in 1989 and it was written by Fenton S. Bresler with his book, "Who Killed John Lennon?." Bresler claimed Chapman was either being controlled by the CIA or working with the CIA. The author claims that the book is mainly the "point of view of a lawyer" [3]. Guiding the people to think the CIA certain “goals” of mind control might be true, and not only true, also successful.
Bresler and other conspirationists such as John Potash with his book, “Drugs As Weapons Against Us: The CIA War On Musicians And Activists” speculates on how Chapman could be connected to the government organization, CIA. The CIA having motives to have a list of potential enemy citizens, Chapman being subject of the project MK-Ultra, and how Chapman was supposedly connected to it through the YMCA. The review of these connections gives the proof that Mark David Chapman was not trained or “brainwashed” by the CIA’s project MKULTRA, and all indicates that his actions were done out of mental problems and personal hatred.

Mainstream Story
According to the BBC News digitized version of an old newspaper in December 8, 1980, states, “The former Beatle John Lennon has been shot dead by an unknown gunman (later known as Mark David Chapman) who opened fire outside the musician’s New York apartment”. Witnesses, a police spokesman, said a suspect was in custody, describing the gunman as a “pudgy kind of man”. Other reports from other witnesses say at least three shots were fired, and that Mr. Lennon staggered up six steps into the vestibule before collapsing. Chapman remained at the scenes until police arrived to arrest him.
When Chapman was asked why he did it, Chapman was apparently involved in various emotions against John Lennon. As is known, John Lennon more than once used his reach with music to give messages or express his political beliefs of anti-capitalistic, anti-nationalist and anti-religious ideologies. Chapman developed some “distrust” towards Lennon, considering him a “phony”. Going through different psychological problems, inner low self esteem, Chapman decided to kill John Lennon, to be famous and find some glory in his life.

YMCA and CIA
	First to mention, it is true as many speculators says that Mark David Chapman was a member of the YMCA in DeKalb County, Georgia, and it is true that he toured a lot of countries, staying in YMCA hotels and working with them for five months at a camp for Vietnamese refugees in Arkansas and at summer camps at his home Y in Georgia. So how does Chapman get involved with the CIA and its MK-Ultra project? According to one of the greatest creators of speculation, Fenton Bresler, in his book "Who killed John Lennon'', Phillip Agee, the first known defector from the CIA, wrote a book in 1974 “Inside the Company : CIA diary” where in a section it mentions how the YMCA office in Quito, the capital of Ecuador, was named as an organization used by the CIA, this being the only connection supporting the YMCA and CIA link. But if it's not a surprise to everyone, Chapman was never even remotely close to Quito, not even to Ecuador, in any of his trips staying at YMCA hostels, where he traveled in his totality to Asia and Europe Countries such as: Beirut, Lebanon; Singapore; Hongkong, China; Paris, France, etc. Chapman never traveled to Ecuador and neither to South America’s countries in his entire life. 

No Records on YMCA - MK-ULTRA
Weirdly enough there weren't any records of him in the YMCA, giving speculations that something or probably someone has tried to erase or hide it from the public eye or so that it does not remain recorded in history. But why weren't there any records of him? “Andrea Hinding, a helpful and dedicated archivist with the YMCA central archives… says that she would have expected to find some records of all his time… the records are not 100 percent complete but other people, with similar service are in the records''(Bresler 31). The possible explanation for this is for the YMCA to have either deleted due to the news of he killing Lennon or just not recorded at all in the first place, because let's remember the records are not 100 percent complete and if we take in mind that there is not even an exact headcount of how many people participated or worked on it, we can suspect or assume Chapman was simply not recorded by the own YMCA. 
The same happens regarding the exact number of people who were experimented on under the MK-Ultra project, which is not known to the public due to the protection of privacy of the individuals. However, it's reported that the program involved more than 150 human experiments and more than 100 experiments were conducted. But there are also several cases and veredits of famous people who have been subjected to MK-Ultra experiments, some names as: James "Whitey" Bulger, Ken Kesey, and Robot Hunter, and more[7]. And it is surprising that there has never been found not a single trace of the name of Chapman, after the murder of John Lennon, in the MK-Ultra archives. 
 At the end, there is not a remote official record of the CIA having links with the organization. This is something that conspiracionists, for example Bresler knows, “In all the literature on the CIA, there is scarcely any reference to any possible link between the agency and the YMCA''(Bresler 28), but stills leave the suspension of might make sense for the CIA to have it, “the value of such association would be tremendous: with YMCA offices in ninety countries around the world… there could be no better cover for an international intelligence network”(Bresler 28). Bresler just like any other conspirationists doesn't present any direct evidence to back speculation implicating government agencies.

Psychological Problems
	As said before, Chapman had a psychological disorder that led him to kill John Lennon. According to the newspaper PEOPLE “Mark Chapman Part Iii: the Killer Takes His Fall” in 1987, Chapman was diagnosed by about a dozen of psychiatrists, some of them concluded that he was psychotic, others that he had paranoid schizophrenia, but the one that makes mores sense is personality disorder. This is when the relationship of Chapman with the book “The Catcher in the Rye”, a book published in 1945 by J. D Salinger enters into the story. Holden Caulfield, the protagonist of the book, a 16 year-old boy who embodies teenage rebellion, vulnerability, and the universal struggle to connect with others, considering the people as “phonies”, and he being some kind of hero. 
	Jack Jones, the author of the book "Let Me Take You Down: Inside the Mind of Mark David Chapman, the Man Who Killed John Lennon," conducted interviews with Chapman, and tries to explain Chapman's mindset, motivations, and events leading up to the tragic event. Concluded that Chapman began to be against Lennon for his unfortunate comment of “we are more popular than Jesus” in an interview he gave when he was still a former member of the Beatles. Also by songs with non-religious, left-wing messages such as “Imagine”, and “God”. All of this made Chapman develop “distrust” towards Lennon, considering him a “phony”:
Chapman: I just wanted to scream out loud, "Who does he think he is, saying these things about God and heaven and the Beatles?" Saying that he doesn't believe in Jesus and things like that. At that point, my mind was going through a total blackness of anger and rage. So I brought the Lennon book home, into this The Catcher in the Rye milieu where my mindset is Holden Caulfield and anti-phoniness (Jones 178-179).
Even though Chapman didn't want to be considered as someone crazy at the moment, nowadays he can admit and self describe that what he had something known as the messiah complex. In one of Chapman’s last paroles, specifically his parole 11th in September, 2020 where he got denied again. Chapman, being a 65-years-old man, ends up saying he wanted to do something bigger with his life due to his self projection with the character:
“I want to be someone helpful and that's a messiah complex, complete and utterly that's the definition of that. You're Going to save people and be bigger than life which is really you're running away from what's going on inside of you so you have to create an alternate world to explain why your life is commonplace, ...that's the best that I can explain it”

Conclusion - My Opinion
	Mark David Chapman was a religious guy who at one point of his life, he was part of the YMCA, he came to help people in need, it was at this time that he became obsessed with the book “Catcher in the Rye”, it is not very clear which one started first, but there was a combination of the Messiah complex and the projection with the personality of the protagonist, Holden Caulfield. Chapman developed hatred and evil towards those he considered phonies, thinking that he was in some twisted sense the hero of the time. He ended up seeing the life around him that he had and saw that he had to be recognized as what he thought he was, a hero. So he ended up making a list of possible people to kill. Abandoning his wife, Chapman went after John Lennon who was the first on the list.
It is quite possible that at the time of the shooting Chapman felt the shock of reality, that he had just killed and taken the life of someone who for the simple reason that he considered him a fraud. He tried to find support in the book that he had thought was his life. He did not resist and when they called him crazy and having mental problems he did not accept it. He wanted people to see and feel what he felt with the book, thinking that what he did would at least help make it known and popular. At the end, his beliefs make him say that he was guilty (because he was) but also during his time in prison he ended up realizing that he had a problem, taking some refuge in God at the end. Now, Chapman thinks he is someone reformed, because God has saved him, guided his way and forgiven his sins.

Journal #5

Section 1: 
Ras Jua Baraka, probably more knowledgeable as the 40th current mayor of Newark, New Jersey, who was first elected in 2014, and then was reelected again in 2018 and 2022. First, some of his education is that he went to Newark Public School and earned a Bachelor Degree of Art in Political Science from Howard University. Then he sought a master of Arts in Education from St. Peter’s University in Jersey City. Some big accomplishments as a Jesuit alumnus are as an educator. Baraka was the principal of Central High School. Also in his first term as a mayor, he achieved a reduction in crime, being at its lowest level in five decades. Baraka’s plan is to transform Newark’s economy by combining employment, procurement and residential strategies. 

Section 2: 
	If I were a Jesuit alumnus, I think I would like to join the World Union of Jesuit, which brings together former pupils and students of Jesuits school worldwide. Also I would like to participate in a big range of events, to be able to connect with other Jesuits alumni.  And lastly I would mainly pursue a career that lines with the Jesuits Values, which emphasizes the development of the person as whole, and in helping others, encouraging us to use our skills and knowledge for the future of our society.

Section 3:
	If i had the resources i would travel around the city, and if it's possible maybe the whole country or even the world, only if i was devoted to it. Going from place to place meeting other Jesuits and creating a good friendship and network of people. Also by volunteering, also if I'm able, to mentor other students. In the end, being a Jesuit alumnus is more about who I am and how I want to live my life following the unique values and skills that guide the person to make a positive contribution to the society.

Journal #4

Write a journal entry of at least two pages, reflecting on the work of Fr. Greg Boyle and the work of the Jesuit Nativity Center in New York City.  

Gregory Joseph Boyle, was born on May 19, 1954. He is a catholic priest of the Jesuit order and is also the founder and director of Homeboy Industries, the world's largest intervention and rehabilitation program. As a Jesuit priest, he dedicated the vast majority of his life to serve the marginalized, forgotten, poor people of society. In the 1980s, Los Angeles, where he is from, he served as a pastor. Witnessing the impact of gang violence on the community, he developed a radical approach, such as: treating gang members as human beings. In 1988, Boyle founded Homeboy Industries, which very soon became the largest gang-intervention and rehabilitation, and re-entry program of the whole world. Homeboy industries open its door for gang members, who seek for a better life. 
	
	Jesuit Nativity Center in New York City,  is administered by the Society of Jesus. The Parish was founded in 1851, by newly arrived Irish Catholics to New York City, who had been forced to flee their homeland during the deadly potato famine. The church and Parish grew in diversity and reached a. It became a center of many opportunities and programs, such as: middle school program, a summer leadership camp and a graduate support service and scholarship fund. It also tries to provide them with opportunities for academic, physical, social, spiritual, and moral development. All of these programs are for the inner-city youngsters. Today’s Jesuit Nativity Center in New York City, is highly active, with 34 different ministries. Now highly diverse in income and ethnicity, though still true to its founding values of ministering to the poor and marginalized and welcoming all into its doors.

Refugees
Introduction
Refugees are people who have been forced to leave their country in order to escape war, persecution, or natural disaster. The articles “Refugees and Asylees in the United States” by the Migration Policy Institute, “How does the U.S. refugee system work?” by PBS NewsHour, and “Refugees in Context: A Systemic, Intersectional Exploration” by Springer talks about this matter and how this happens in the USA. Social Stratification, inequality, race and gender have also some play on this issue, and it will be discuss the insight and how these factors effect and could be changed for a type of solution.

Article 1: Refugees and Asylees in the United States by the Migration Policy Institute
This article talks and provides an in-depth analysis of the U.S. refugee and asylum populations, including top countries of origin such as: Bhutan, Iraq, Cuba, Sudan, etc. And also top states for refugees in the USA resettlement, such as: Texas, California, New York and more. It discusses how the U.S. refugee resettlement has fluctuated significantly over the past decade, reflecting the priority of presidential administrations.

Article 2: How does the U.S. refugee system work? by PBS NewsHour
This article explains the U.S. refugee system, including the definition of a refugee according to U.S. law and the United Nations’ 1951 Refugee Convention. Defined as people who are able to demonstrate they have been persecuted or have reason to fear persecution, under the protected grounds, race, religion, nationality and political opinion. It also discusses the historical context of the U.S. refugee system and how it has evolved over time, such during WWII, and the Cold War, USA welcoming those escaping from communist regimes in Europe and Asia during. Also mentions the presidential administrations about the matter, such as Obama, Trump and Biden. 

Article 3: Refugees in Context: A Systemic, Intersectional Exploration by Springer
This article examines how individual, community, and socio-political mechanisms of discrimination intersect, manifest, and perpetuate in the lives of refugees in the United States. According to the research, finding reveals that discrimination of refugees appears and functions as individual perceived experiences within multiple axes of oppression, also through community environments, and under socio-political contexts. Findings highlight the need to explore and understand how political and community climates perpetuate individual, interpersonal, institutional, and systemic discrimination of refugees.

What is social stratification?
Social Stratification is the term referring in which society ranks individuals in some type of hierarchy, depending on its status based on wealth, income, education, family background, and power in general. In our class, two things I believe are the most important things that might be related to my topic, Refugees, is Culture and Social Stratification itself. Culture is one of the most important and critical factors of the individual, teaching them norms, values, language, perception, beliefs/religion, etc.
Social Stratification is the thing we all are. For Refugees, they often find themselves at the lower end of the social stratification system in their host countries due to a lack of resources, limited social networks, and barriers to employment and education. The majority face social exclusion and inequality in access to resources and opportunities making the access to higher education a real challenge for refugees. Which therefore reinforce their position in the social hierarchy. 
The role of race and gender might play in refugees, but mostly race and the geographical aspects. Refugees usually come from countries not so well developed or in some kind of problem such as mentioned before, persecution, war, communist countries. Unfortunately the solution to this isn't really clear.

Conclusion
Refugees are an important case to see in the USA, as they are a large number of immigrants who are looking for a better place, fleeing their countries, whether due to: persecution, fear of persecution, war, or political differences in their country. When you immigrate as such, you find it difficult to rise in social stratification and culture, being these two the most important things that might be related to Refugees. The article “Refugees and Asylees in the United States” by the Migration Policy Institute talks about the main countries the refugees come from, and the states they reside in. In the article “How does the U.S. refugee system work?” by PBS NewsHour talks about the historical context of the U.S. refugee system and its changes with the recent presidents. “Refugees in Context: A Systemic, Intersectional Exploration '' by Springe examines how community, and socio-political mechanisms of discrimination manifest in the lives of refugees in the United States. Making them experiences within multiple axes of oppression. 

Essay 2: Socialization
Introduction
Socialization is something we all do, we live inside of it, since we are born into this world, going from when we are a child, to adulthood, we consciously or nonconscious get to be part of a group, taking a role in our own way of living. But among the population, and with bad luck, there are some individuals who either because of abuse or ignorance, they never experience socialization, such as the Case Genie, growing up without any human interactions, making her different from the rest. It will be discussed not only the question “What is Socialization?” but also the Case Genie and how the lack of socialization affected her. Lastly, also talking about my own personal experience through my socialization process.

What is Socialization?
Before going deeper into the effects of socialization, we need to understand, and define what it is. Socialization is defined in the book “Introduction to Sociology 3e”, in chapter 5, where it says, “Socialization is the process through which people are taught to be proficient members of a society”. The book also makes a mention to not confuse socialization with socializing, which is the act to interact with others, “Socialization describes ways people get to know and understand some norms and expectations of a society, and also to accept beliefs and to be aware of its values”(Intro. To Sociology 3e, ch.5).  
Culture is crucially related to Socialization, for the simple reason Culture takes a big part in our life. Culture shapes how an individual learns to function within society, an example the book “Intro To Sociology 3e” gives, is of how U.S kids are teached the values of democracy, whether it's at school, or by looking at their parents voting, also the values of liberty and equality. So, it is safe to say that culture is crucial because it provides the framework for socialization, guiding individuals to a better understanding of their roles/behaviors/values towards society.

Case Genie (Lack of Socialization)
Now that we have introduced the definition of Socialization, we can see what happens if someone lacks from experiences of culture or interactions between society. Case Genie is introduced in the documentary “Genie: The Secret of the Wild Child”, an unfortunate case where a little girl was locked up in a room for more than 12 years without being able to see the outside world and neither interact with others. When she was found, she could hardly walk as a normal person, and didn't know how to talk at all, and was scared of even making a single noise. Watching Genie’s Cases, lacking socialization, or having so much isolation from social interactions makes you someone un-experienced of any type of culture or socialization process. For example, in early videos of her founding, Genie had a weird way to walk, many considering it as animal-like. Genie due to his lack of social interactions didn't know how to behave or act, walking isn't something we born knowing. We crawled, learned how to stand and then tried to imitate the others around us. In the documentary it is also mentioned the case of Victor, who was described as a salvage. He emerged from the woods, naked and behaving like an animal, also having a lack of speech and his movement being chaotic. Having these two cases, one thing in similar is how they did not act as what we consider normal in humans, they act “animal-like”.

My socialization process
My personal experience in the socialization process starts in my childhood, my family, and my first steps on my culture. I was born in Peru on March 30th, 2005; I was the last son of a christian non-married couple, my parents. I had a big sister 5 years older than me, who I remember bothering most of the time when I was a kid. We used to play-around, non-serious fighting, but she is the first person that influenced me in many of my future hobbies. Such as my taste in music, watching anime, and an introduction to social-media. I almost don't remember anything from my school days at that time, but I remember certain things, such as my first experience with bullying. Around 2-3th grade, during class, we had to read something on our own. The classmates who were next to me were making some comments that I didn't like. I honestly don't remember what they said, but I remember ending up crying. The teacher noticed me, and she asked me why and who was bothering me, and I told her that it was these two boys. In response, one of these tried to excuse himself by lying that it was not him but his partner when in reality it was both of them. I feel that it is something important to mention because beyond being and feeling bullied, witnessing him gave me a glimpse of what it is like to be someone who lies, and someone who does not recognize what he did. 
	Next, it’s my move to the United States, and how this changes many things for me and my family, and installs in me various values and how my feeling or closeness to my culture or family who still lives in Peru becomes zero. My parents not only started not being at home due to their extra work they had to do at the time, but also a signal to me and my sister about our role in this country: “Be a professional”. Fortunately, my parents were never mean to me in any severe way, nor did they have to be harsh with me, since I was not a problem child either. Again, my sister being the older one, she not only had to learn the language in just 2 years, but also going to college at 17, graduating and doing a master's while I was still in high school. Not to mention that my parents usually compare me to her, but I never felt bad about that, since I personally felt proud of her. Also, coming to this country gave me a zero closeness to my culture, and I developed a nonexistent feeling for any nation. Being far away from my country, friends, family, over time it began to fade, the way I used to talk, or to express myself everything disappeared. I ended up not feeling in any way that I belonged here or there. But the more I think about it, I don't see any sense in supporting my country just because it's my country.
	Lastly, high school, friendships, and stigmas. In my case, I went from half of 9th grade to 11th due to covid, practically from middle school to highschool. I not only didn't learn anything during online classes, I also didn't socialize with any new people. either way i still had my friends before covid. Without going deep into my love life, I had good and bad experiences with them. I ended up thinking about who are the people I’m keeping around with me, and who actually deserves my kindness and who are real friends. Obviously I also had to make some insight into myself, to learn and change for the best. It is also within these relationships I luckily, only witness or hear about the use of drugs, alcohol and parties. At first, it was my father who influenced me to drink, but as the years went by, I ended up not only learning that it was also a drug, but that it is a well-regarded drug. Even my own father told me and invited me to drink. Unlike others who come to agree due to social pressure, I have always refused to take or try any of these drugs. With vape for example, friends of my friends vaped, and I have ended up not hanging out with the group if I know they will be vaping regularly. I like to think I'm someone reserved, chill,  staying healthy, trying to live as much as possible, and more importantly, learning from my own mistakes and the mistakes of others.

Conclusion
In conclusion, Socialization is the process through which people are taught to be proficient members of a society, and how Culture it's crucial to it, because it provides the framework for socialization, guiding individuals to a better understanding of their roles. Also, the view of what happens when we don't have socialization or any type of social interactions. Where we get heartbreaking cases such as Genie, who could hardly walk as a normal person, and didn't know how to talk at all, acting like what we consider “animal-like”. Lastly, a mini biography of who I am, and certain experiences I had that shaped me the person I am today, through my own Socialization process.


First Year Seminar Midterm Project
Introduction:
The film “ROMERO”, starring by Raul Julia,  Richard Jordan and Ana Alicia; was made in honor to the Archbishop Oscar Romero of El Salvador, who started as a complacent priest not involved in politics, to a true leader, who started a revolution in his country with the use of violence, such as guns, army, etc. The priest who only fought telling the truth. In the film there are various moments where the character Romero, changes his attitude from timid/submissive priest to someone desperate to make change to seek peace and justice for the poor. 
	Talking about people who sought justice for the poor while fighting not only rejecting violence, but also by telling the mere truth, is Mahatma Gandhi. Being his formal full name Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi, was a lawyer in India who inspired movements for the civil rights of his country, seeking civil rights and successfully taking it out of the British empire/rule. Gandhi made a lot of changes in life, before committing to all this.
	Lastly, feeling connected with these two great human beings and their stories, I must say there were different times in my life, where I had to change not only the way I think, also the way I act, the way I see things.. Such as the time I learned about how drugs productivity is an indirect and direct cause for a lot of malice in the everyday world, and how if you consume you are a problem and helping profiting gangs, cartels, and more illegal groups that kill.

Romero:
El Salvador was in a very critical situation when Romero was elected as an archbishop. During this time, shooting, dead bodies, people missing, violation of human rights was something of everydays bread. Romero being someone apolitical, even called like a “bookworm”, his intentions at the beginning weren't exactly the best for the situation. Not until his first encounter with the assassinations of a boy, an old man and priest, he sees the real role he had to take. In the film ROMERO between the minutes 31:00-33:32, “Romero is advised by one of the other priests at the scene that it was the moment for the archbishop to speak, that he needed to speak, and so he does. Romero began to say he is planning to create a Mass for the boy, old man, and priest on Sunday”, This part of the film is the beginning of Romero as a character on defending the poor and the helpless by speaking in front of the crowd and giving them an answer and a voice. The beginning of its voice being heard. Another moment where Romero changes not only his actions but also the one around them is when he defies soldiers, between the minutes 1:05:00-1:08:35, “Romero is intimidated by a soldiers, who even shots the church’s jesus crux, after this moment, the archbishop Romero gets its gawn and starts walking to enter again to the church, by doing so, the people outside of this, start aligning behind him and following him to the entrance. The soldiers point their weapons, but in front of so many people they surrender and let everyone pass. Followed by the words of Romero, of taking the church back and strengthening all those whom the enemies of the church have trampled down”. This is the first time where Romero takes his steps to defy violence, and was gifted with the people's support, exercising its position as archbishop and leader. Lastly a point in consideration to mention is right before Romero was assassinated during the Mass, his words were the most truthful and full of emotions to stop violence against the helpless. In the film through 1:36:00-THE END, Romero says:
“I would like to make a special appeal to the men in the army. Brothers, each one of you is one of us. We are the same people. The farmers and peasants that you kill are your own brothers and sisters. When you hear the words of a man telling you to kill, think instead of the words of God, ‘Thou shalt not kill’, No soldier is obligated to obey and order contrary to the law of God… who have suffered so much and whose laments cry out to heaven, I implore you, I beg you, I order you, STOP THE OPPRESSION". 
Romero, after seeing all the disaster around him, of people murdered, kidnapped, and tortured, can do nothing but beg and order them to stop, calling for the reason that it is wrong, as he says, no man has to follow the call of murder of another man. Even after his murder during mass, even after his death, he shall arise and let his blood be the beginning for the Salvadoran people to keep fighting against the violence in seek of freedom.

Mahatma Gandhi: 
Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi, best known as Mahatma Gandhi, is probably one of the most recognized and famous historical figures against violence and supporter of the rights/freedom of human beings. Born on October 2, 1869, he started his career as a lawyer in India, later on his life, he would become an anti-colonialist and a political ethicist. The biggest change in life for Gandhi was when he assumed leadership of the Indian National Congress in 1921. Here is when he led nationwide campaigns to ease poverty, expand women’s rights and promote religious and ethnic harmony and end untouchability. In the book “Peace: the words and inspiration of Mahatma Gandhi”, introduction by Archbishop Desmond Tutu, combines photographs of Gandhi with quotations from his inspiring speeches and writing, capturing the big essence of his messages of peace, equality and love, “In a lifetime of heroic stands against injustice and exploitation it is difficult to single out a moment that had more value than others”(9). A big action Gandhi did that made the world listen to him was the Salt March in 1930, where he led thousands of Indians to protest against salt taxes, and became an iconic symbol of resistance. “His unyielding opposition to intolerance and oppression inspired India and leaders like Martin Luther King Jr.”(Stanley Wolpert, Gandhi’s Passion: The Life and Legacy of Mahatma Gandhi).
Lastly, I would like to mention the book Mahatma Gandhi, His Own Story, his autobiography, where Ghandi shares his life experiences and experiments, also describing his journey from a child of privilege to an amazing leader who embraced suffering as a path of truth. No doubt his love for humanity shines through his actions.

Me:
When I was still in high school, around 9th grade, my teacher put the assignment to choose between if marihuana should be legalized or not. At the time, I presented and chose my side, marihuana, more precisely cannabis, can be used for health as a  tranquilizer. As I grew older, and to my bad luck, it was legalized in NJ not long after. I ended up learning that not only does it smell horrible, but it also has several horrible brain side effects for those who consume it. Unfortunately it is also one of those that is widely accepted socially. While walking down the street, taking the train, sometimes more than once entering class, I have come to sniff the smell. “Benefits and Harms of Medical Cannabis: A Scoping Review of Systematic Reviews” by Misty Pratt et al, talks about the “benefits”, but also the long term harmful effects of it. Some possible long term sides are such as psychosis, paranoia, anxiety, etc. This without mentioning the fact that most people smoke it, being also harmful to the general body. When I learned about all these different effects not only cut off any possibility of me ever trying it, but also it made me to advise those around me and for any significant other that I may have in the future. 

Conclusion:
In conclusion, in the film ROMERO has critical scenes where he shows his true soul as leader, and changes his attitude to make change to seek peace and justice for the poor even after his assassination. Also we see this with Mahatma Gandhi when he assumed leadership of the Indian National Congress and started the Salt March, using non-violence as the best weapon of reason. Lastly, saving the difference of course, I changed my point about the consumption of drugs such as marijuana/weed/cannabis, learning its side effects that may harm anyone who consumes it. 

Essay 1: Science, Theory, and Methods 

Introduction
Sociology is one of the most important topics of our century, trying to understand and explain human behavior in societies, communities, and how these correlate to patterns or to an outcome. This paper assignment will talk about what we discussed in the class, or what we have seen so far of the semester. Starting with “what is sociology?”, “what does it mean to think structurally?”, continued by mentioning the main three theories and the main research methods that sociologists use, and ending with a study of any topic and method in sociology of my personal choice. Everything well detailed with citations from class, notes, the book, and also connected with personal experience and preference.

What is Sociology?
Going back to our human history, to understand Sociology we must go to its origin. Sociology starts somewhere during the Period of Enlightenment(1700), where everyone wanted to follow reason and knowledge, by stopping being so traditional and becoming more secular; followed also by the urge to understand our world and obviously us humans. Sociology itself didn't really start until the Industrial Revolution(1850), where people's lifestyles changed completely, where capitalism took control as the normal system of economy. Now, what exactly is Sociology?, According to our book by Tonja R. Conerly, Kathleen Holmes and Asha Lal Tamang, 2021,
 Introduction to Sociology 3e, Sociology is “the scientific and systematic study of groups and group interactions…, from small and personal groups to very large groups”(1.1). This includes the so-called social sciences, which are: Economics, Political Science, Anthropology and Psychology. It's critical to mention that Sociology goes and follows the scientific method in all its ways and uses; by making a question or observation, an hypothesis, the collection of data, analysis and finally an conclusion.
The most important aspect to know about Sociology is how to think structurally, which can be described as the understanding of how different parts of a society are connected and how they function together. Sociologists make the use of Social structures, such as: Patterns, something that have a permanent or semi-permanent behavior in a group or place; Culture, which relates to the practices, values, and beliefs of a specific group; Institutions; Groups with a shared meaning, etc. Lastly, in addition, the term Power, referring to the ability of someone to control theirs or others destinies, is also considered while doing sociological studies. An example of social structure can be Family, actually the most important social structure, because it's where we learn our first social roles and values as we grew up into the world.

Main Theories of Sociology
Sociology as how it works by studying social events and patterns, it also has identified and developed some theories.  The theories vary depending on its purpose and scale; we refer to this as Macro-level, which tries to explain a big sample issue of a large group and Micro-level that tries to explain a  “very specific relationship between individuals or small groups”(1.3). The main theories are: Functionalism Theory(Macro/Mid) - “The way each part of society functions together to contribute to the functioning of the whole”(1.3, Table) ,  Conflict Theory(Macro) - “The way inequities and inequalities contribute to social, political, and power differences and how they perpetuate power”(1.3, Table),  and Symbolic Interactionism(Micro) - “The way one-on-one interactions and communications behave”(1.3, Table). Conflict Theory might be my personal favorite because it implies Power Imbalance. Something that stood out to me while taking a lecture was the way capitalism works, Workers vs Owners, where obviously the Owners have much more power than the Workers, controlling different aspects of the community such as the media, factories, politics and most importantly the economy. I prefer this theory because it feels simpler to understand, two groups have a struggle and after some time it comes to a Synthesis, which doesn't always means progress, which in my opinion, feels a lot more realistic. Another reason why I prefer this theory is because it relates to new concepts I didn't know, Class Consciousness, the idea of a personal problem but in reality is a general problem, and False Consciousness, the idea of a personal struggle caused of external forces, while convincing you, that is your fault. It got me thinking a lot about how our society has to go through problems, like being fired, or having a bad education to even injustices done by people in power, such as slavery and women rights to actually make a change in the ways we see and live in our society.

Research Methods in Sociology And Personal Choice
For this we must understand first that research methods in Sociology are divided in two different categories, Quantitative and Qualitative. The first one tends to work with numbers, statistics, surveys and Positivism, “the scientific study of social patterns”(2021, Introduction to Sociology 3, Key Terms). While on the other hand, Qualitative, is more focused on content and process, oriented to interpretations and experiences. 
For my research, following the scientific method, I noticed a lot of differences or bad looks about today's relationship styles. I would like to do a study about which relationship this generation of people choose to have, open relationships?, or monogamous relationships? and compare it to if they are more happy than the people of the last generation, in the United States. My hypothesis, people with monogamous relationships of the old generation will testify of being more happy. To start with this research, the Qualitative would be the research method I would use for this. First, I would create an open-ended interview asking for age(it will be only for 21 or older), ethnicity, sexual orientation, number of relationships, location, relationship status, and then to ask their relationship preference, and ask them to explain their choice “this is because we need to let the participant tell their perspective and experience about it”(2/13/2024, Introduction to Sociology lecture). In the middle of the interview I would also ask about external factors such as social support, financial stability, mental health, etc. Right at the end I would ask them how happy they are on a scale of 1-5 regarding their relationship life. Then, separate the 60 years or older participants and compare it with the rest of the responses. 

Conclusion
In summary, Sociology is the science/study of groups and their interactions; going from personal to big masses of people. Thinking Structurally by using social structures. Also developing their main three theories: Functionalism, Conflict Theory and Symbolic Interactionism. And using two methods of research as Quantitative and Qualitative research. And finally by mentioning my personal preference about a topic and how I would execute it.

Compare AND Contrast
The story about Atlantis in the text “TIMAEUS and CRITIAS'' by Plato, has indisputable similarities with the civilization Minoan from Crete. The description of Atlantis, remarks very much to Minoans mostly archaeologically and geographically. But it also has major differences that make the idea of being the same city really hard to believe; such as the time period, religion, type of civilization, and history itself. In this occasion, it is going to be disscuss all these similar and different aspects of these two.
Starting with a common aspect of both civilizations, we can see or interpret how the description of Atlantis continent matches perfectly with the Minoan Crete. As we know from Plato’s story it says “The surrounding mountains were celebrated for their number and size and beauty, far beyond any which still exist, having in them also many wealthy villages of country folk…”(7). If we see a Minoan Crete map, we can see a bunch of mountains not too far around their palaces (which are local administrative/trade/religious centres), which is also something in common, the palaces. According to the website Minoan Civilization, “Small towns, villages, and farms were spread around the territory seemingly controlled by a single palace. Roads connected these isolated settlements to each other and the main centre”(Minoan Palace Settlements). We can see this in Plato’s Story where it says “meanwhile they went on constructing their temples and palaces …, bridged over the zones of sea which surrounded the ancient metropolis, making a road to and from the royal palace. And at the very beginning they built the palace in the habitation of the god and of their ancestors…”(52). Also we cannot forget about the Aegean Sea, which is where the Minoan Crete is situated. The Aegean Sea has a lot of tiny pieces of land spread on it and we know from Plato’s story that “...for many generations were the inhabitants and rulers of divers islands in the open sea”(51). There is no doubt that the major descriptions of Atlantis match almost perfectly with Minoan Crete, still, not enough to actually affirm that it is Atlantis.
A big difference Atlantis and Minoans civilizations have is their acts of war, as far as we know the Minoans were a pacific civilization. According to the website Minoan Civilization, it says, “The absence of fortifications in the settlements suggests a relatively peaceful co-existence between the different communities.”(Minoan Palace Settlements). Really different from what we know from Altantis people, that they were conquerors of islands and in war with Egypt and Athens, “Now in this island of Atlantis there was a great and wonderful empire which had rule over the whole island and several others, and over parts of the continent, and, furthermore…”(Plato 8). Edwin Swift Balch, talked about this matter in his writing, “Atlantis or Minoan Crete”, where it states, “These statements may perfectly well apply to Minoan Crete. Crete may easily have ruled over many of the islands of the AEgean, it may well have ruled over the Peloponnesus”(389/or 3 in pdf). But these are mere assumptions with no real base or proof. Actually, we know Minoan did have contact with foreign people, for example Egypt, but far from war, what they did was commerce between them; mainly pottery and Minoan artists taking their skills to go to the royal palace of Egypt.
Another similarity we see between Atlantis and Minoan Crete is the reasons for how and why its civilization disappeared or declined. Here is when the eruption of Thera comes in. The Thera volcano was/is situated in the north of the Crete island in the Aegean Sea. As far as we know the Thera eruption was about 1500 BCE (date still disputed) and it is believed to be one of the largest volcanic eruptions of all time. It was this natural disaster that caused many subsequent earthquakes and tsunamis to the Minoan Crete island, destroying it, to be immediately evacuated by its people. Even though Plato mix the natural disaster that caused the Atlantis destruction with being a Zeus punishment, it says “But afterwards there occurred violent earthquakes and floods; and in a single day and night of misfortune all your warlike men in a body sank into the earth, and the island of Atlantis in like manner disappeared in the depths of the sea”(8). Minoan Crete did not disappear in the depths of the sea but we can see the big similarities of these two on their destruction causes.
Lastly, the major difference between Altantis and Minoan Crete is who they worship from each civilization. Plato's story says “-in the centre was a holy temple dedicated to Cleito and Poseidon…, six winged horses-and of such a size that he touched the roof of the building with his head; around him there were a hundred Nereids riding on dolphins”(53). Atlantis worshiped Poseidon and its mythology, which includes having sea/flying/horses, delphines, the sea, tridents as a main image. While on the other hand, Minoan Crete used to worship apparently a voluptuous female mother-earth goddess figure and male figure holding several animals, having as main animal bulls or bull horns. According to the website Minoan Civilization, “details about its religion are revealed through art, architecture and artifacts…, such artworks as a voluptuous female mother-earth goddess figure…, bulls are prominent in Minoan art, and their horns are an architectural feature of palace walls and a general decorative element…”(Religion). There is no real similarity between not only religion but also art and architecture styles.
In conclusion, there are too many differences that challenge the idea Plato’s story is telling Atlantis as a tale supposedly real, that remarks the Minoan civilization. They indeed have similarities but not more than just coincidences like the way the civilization went down or how the description of the land and its surrounding matches a lot to Minoan Crete. But failing in matching the most important details, such as the type of civilization, religion and most importantly the time period. As mentioned, Thera eruption that caused Minoan decline happened around 1600 BCE while Plato tells Atlantis tale happened around 9,000 years before his time, which would roughly correspond to around 11,600 BCE. Atlantis and Minoan Crete are NOT the same city.

Journal #3

First, let's talk about Matteo Ricci's early years and education. He was born on October 6, 1552. in the Italian city of Macerata. He was well-known for his commitment to both scientific research and missionary work when he joined the Society of Jesus in 1571. Next, we have his Missionary Work in China, where Ricci started his work as a missionary in 1582 after traveling to Macau. After studying classical Chinese, he adjusted to Chinese culture. During his nearly 30-year stay in China, he brought Christian teachings to the Chinese empire in the sixteenth century. And lastly, his Cultural Exchange, during which Ricci pioneered the understanding of China and the West.  He created the Kunyu Wanguo Quantu, the first world map in Chinese, and wrote several Christian works in Chinese. He also made the first translation of Confucian texts into a European language. About the importance of Ignatian Spirituality. For me it provides a pathway to deeper prayer, good decisions guided by discernment, and an active life of service. And it's important for me because it empowers people to become leaders in service, building more of a humane world. The third panel shows the belief that God can be found in every one, in every place, and in everything. It is important because it helps us become more thankful, reverent, and devoted to God.

Kircher was portrayed as the unknown Asian “Other” in the China Illustrata by 1. Idolatry Connections. Kircher connects Western, Indian, Chinese, and Japanese idolatry, attempting to prove the evidence of early Christianity in China. 2. Visual Representations: “China Illustrata” were based on explorers’ sketches and original images imported from Asia. 3. Interior Spaces: Kircher’s work also reinvents the interior spaces inhabited by Asian rulers, aligning them with European royal palace norms. China Illustrata teaches us about  judging people who are different from ourselves by understanding through representation. Also by the danger of stereotyping, because it can generalize a group which can lead to oversimplified and inaccurate perceptions. And lastly, Kircher never visited Asia, yet he wrote extensively about it. This highlights the importance of direct experience and interaction in forming accurate judgments about others, teaching us how we need the direct experience or information to make a precise judgment of something or someone.

Journal #2

Section 1:  Ignatian often means to Saint Ignatius of Loyola, who is the founder of the Jesuit order, also means a form of Catholic spirituality that's based on the experiences and teaching of Saint Ignatius. For the Greater Glory of God means AD MAJOREM DEI GLORIAM, which in other words means the biggest priority should be God in everyone. Finding God in All Things it’s the belief that God can be found in every one, in every place, and in everything. When we learn to pay more attention to God, we become more thankful and reverent, and we become more devoted to God. Magis means “more” or "greater” in Latin. “Magis” also refers to the philosophy of doing more for Christ, and therefore doing more for others. Cura personalis is a Latin phrase that means to care for the whole person which suggests individualized attention to the needs of others. Men and Women for Others is pretty straight forward that embodies the idea of forming individuals who will live not for themselves but for God and his Christ. It’s about forming individuals who cannot even conceive of love of God which does not include love for the least of their neighbors and. And lastly “Go Forth and Set the World on Fire!!”, which means to go out into the world and make a positive impact in it.

Section 2: Why did you come to Saint Peter’s University? The main reason is because a familiar, my sister, recommended it to me. She graduated and then transferred to Stevens University to get a Master degree in biotechnology. Also, Saint Peter’s University was the one who gave me more financial support than the other universities I apply to, and also to mention, it was the closest one to my house. Now for the reasons I stay, Saint Peter's University, I believe, has a great many different ways for the students to communicate with teachers, mentors, faculty. Also providing a lot of events for mental health, yoga, spirituality, Also to mention CASE, the EOF program,where in fact I’m in, the program actually requires you to go out to different workshops or events to make the students get out of their comfort zone. Overall I really appreciate that Saint Peter's University tries and commits very well for the students to develop, learn and grow personally and educationally in all aspects of life.

#1 Journal Entry: Ignatius Loyola's Spirituality 

Saint Ignatius of Loyola was born in 1491 in the Basque region of northern Spain. The Basques people were honorable people, and proud of their culture and language. The Basques country has an isolated language, which means it has no ancestors to any other ancient language. Also known as Euskara, is one of the oldest living languages in Europe and is spoken in the Basque region of northern Spain and southern France. Before christianity, the ancient Basques used to worship a female god called Mari. It is believed Mari lived in some cave, possibly high in the mountains and brought storms to the region to water the land and express her fury. Caves were very prominent in basque mythology, which symbolize the land of the dead, and the entrance to a world of magic. Which influenced Saint Ignatius, for him to pray in caves. Basque Region, even though at some period, the Roman Empire tried to conquer the whole land, it was never fully incorporated into the Empire. Because they were really difficult to control, also because they had advantages in knowledge about the surrounding mountain, making it easy to surprise roman soldiers. 

The First Principle and Foundation is a spiritual concept from the Spiritual Exercises of Ignatius of Loyola. This concept states that God created human beings to praise, reverence and serve God, and by doing this, to save their souls. It says that God created the rest of the things on earth to fulfill this purpose. We must use the things of this world to help us to do so and get rid of those things and get in the way of this goal. We do not necessarily want health rather than sickness, riches rather than poverty, honor rather than dishonor. We want the ultimately desire of what is most conducive for us to the end for which God created us. These are concepts that relate to me since I was a toddler, just with the slight difference that now I don't do it to serve God, nor to save my soul. 

One concept within Saint Ignatius’ Spiritual Exercises that I almost completely can't relate with is, Second Week - Self-giving, which says “Loving Christ intimately and grafting one’s life story to his. Praying with mind,  heart, and all one’s senses and hearing the call of Christ. Becoming aware of choices and discerning which leads us to a closer relationship with Christ”. For the simple reason that I don’t believe in God anymore and probably because I never understood how to be aware of choices or decisions that God wanted me to make, to feel closer to him.

Robert Moses As a Hero

Robet Moses was a very controversial character in New York City history, a little bit after WWII, he single handedly and reformed the old infrastructure of New York into a new and more modern metropolis. He was part of new important buildings such as highways, bridges, parks and housing. He was really criticized by his methods of achievement, for example by displacing thousands of people, mainly the poor and African Americans. Robert Moses was like “an artist painting on a canvas,” when he handled free-citizens lands, but when the canvas was already heavily populated he can be viewed as a visionary. We cannot negate all the reform and help he made that converted New York to what it is today. Robert Moses can certainly be considered as a villain, but can also be seen as a hero.

Robert Moses Essay

Well, everyone knows the big city of “New York” and how it is so urbanized, vast in buildings and roads and especially how and why it is so traveled by many people every single day. Robert Moses played pretty too much in how we recognized New York nowadays. But let's clarify, Robert Moses is and has become a huge controversial figure in urban planning. He not only single-handled and planned and led a lot of buildings, roads, and parks that make New York City the special place it is today. He destroyed many old neighborhoods and created a different sense of community. Many people may consider him a bad influence on the growth and development of NYC, but I believe the majority will consider him as a hero.

Robert Moses cites the phrase of Rommel, which he considers funny and a little bit on the cynical side, but still true, “if the end doesn't justify the means, what does?”. Robert Moses was a guy who liked to get things done, a visionary with a clear goal. I believe Robert Moses knew what he was doing and took his chance to complete what he wanted to build. Many people call him controversial because of his method that included displacing thousands of people, mainly the poor and African Americans. Nowadays NYC has its own problems, but still has the fame of its cultural, financial, and media influence, skyscrapers, districts, and energy. I believe Robet Moses knew it was necessary for the greater good and future of NYC. 

As we can see in big cities, it's preferable to walk/use transportation than driving. Robert Moses believed that automobiles and cities could coexist, although it's not preferred, due to the difficulty of driving into a crowded city or pedestrians and drivers. New York City rarely ever has parking, in which people will pay more than $40 to just park their car for less than six hours. Driving a car in the city is expensive, and people risk the chances of accidents due to the inexperienced drivers who drive in the city. Public transportation is mainly a common solution to this transportation issue, getting in and out of NYC with it has the convenience of cost, and efficiency. It has become more easily accessible due to having subways in nearly every other block, which is cheaper and faster. 

Comparing Jersey City with New York City, in the last decade Jersey City has been growing at a faster rate than New York City. This can be taken as how New Jersey is a more suburban state in general, while NYC was already in its peak of urbanization. Recently, Hudson County, where Jersey City is located, issues substantially more housing permits than New York City, and the area has grown at a rate of 7% compared to New York City with only 3%. Jersey City has embraced urban growth where New York City has not done in recent years, and it has become an attractive option for New Yorkers looking to trade up or those who couldn’t afford to live in NYC.

Robert Moses in my opinion was a visionary, a change that took lead in reformings which still shows today after more than 5 decades. I believe that the major factor concerning the growth and development of cities was exactly what he accomplished to NYC. Like in a canvas, he built highways and bridges for mobility to the city. Housing for more residents for a bigger population. Parks, for sacred/non-sacred places and greenness. In conclusion, Robert Moses can be considered as bad influence or as a hero. But we cannot deny what he achieved in the city. Single-handedly reshaped the infrastructural landscape of New York City and transformed it into a modern metropolis.

Micro Paper 8:
A city’s location is really important for the cities, viability, economically, etc. Back in the day, cities were settled in defensive terrain, with factors including things like the availability of water, food, good soils, a quality harbor, and characteristics that make a location easy to defend from attacks. Now in today's cities it's more about economics and transportation. Some contributions of a good location can be, a city located near a river or a sea. Rivers provide fresh water for drinking and irrigation also for public/economic transportations and imports to the city. But it also affects negativity, cities close to rivers are hard to overstate an urban overgrowth. In conclusion, a good viability in a city is important for the resident, environmental sustainability, infrastructure, etc. A good strategic settlement of the location, it’s extremely important for a good viability.

Urbanism and Urbanization:
Even when “urbanism” and “urbanization” are sometimes used as synonyms, they mean totally different things. Urbanization is called the process of development of urban areas, things like: industrialization, modernization, markets and concentration of people in one place, are considered ways of urbanization. While urbanism is the actual state of a city or characteristics of lifestyle of people living in urban areas. Examples are: complex division of labor, high levels of technology, high mobility, and independence among its residents. In conclusion, urbanization is the movement to urbanism, and urbanism is the lifestyle in urban areas.

Non-sacred space and a Third Place:
A non-sacred space can be defined as this thing in common between believers and non-believers. People have a sense of what is sacred, to what is “divine”, and they justify it in various ways. Anything or anywhere with a unique quality; where people define it as a “holy place” of his private universe. While Third Place is more simple, places where people spend time between their home (1st place) and their work (2nd place). The most common third places for people are: a coffee shop, churches, gym, the park, etc. 

In my personal experience, I once had a non-sacred place. I remember going back to the garage of my old house, outside, going right at the bottom/end of the condominium, there was this white fence, and behind that there was this beautiful tiny prairie followed by an immense lake and on the other side of the lake you could see in the distance other houses. I used to go there just to relax, think or just to contemplate the view. But then they started building houses in the green space that was left there, covering the view to the lake. So I stopped going there, and I eventually moved to another house. About the Third Place, I don't think I ever had one, so no personal experience.

Defund the Police:
“Defund the Police” is the movement referring to taking out all or part of the funds given by the government to other important social departments, for example: health care, homeless services, housing, youth service, etc. Some activists of the “Defund the Police” movement, believe the police department is being overfunded, and that it could be reformed, by relocating its funds to the other last mentioned departments. While some others want the full divestment and total abolishment of the police department.  The general activists who support the defunding of police departments often argue that investing in community programs could provide a better crime deterrent for communities; funds would go toward addressing social issues. 

More than just my opinion, “Defund the Police '' just doesn't work, at least not if you completely defund it. Cities who follow up with the movement, like Minnesota, approved 6.4 million to try and recruit more police officers due to the continuous high rising crimes after they voted to defund the police. I believe some problems of violence in cities can be cutted from the root, or by attacking the core issue, which some big issues could be: mental problems, health care, gangs. And it could be a good option to put more fundings to other departments. But the police are necessary in a society. For the simple reason, people need some kind of control.

Sanctuary Policy:
Sanctuary Policy is basically, the term that is applied to jurisdictions that limit cooperation with federal immigration authority, things like, not giving information about immigration status and limiting the length of immigration detainers. Deteiners is when an individual gets arrested and its information is sended to ICE to review its data and if it matches immigration violations, if it does so, then that individual gets deported. Also by limiting cooperation in civil investigations to support public safety and community policing goals. Such states like New York, North Carolina and California are Pro-Sanctuary policy, while Texas, North Carolina and Florida are against-Sanctuary policy. My personal thoughts regarding Sanctuary Policy, being myself, an immigrant, I support it, but it only goes personal, I wouldn't like just for a minor crime, me or one of my relatives get deported. On the other hand, I still feel, if you do something wrong, big enough to get you arrested, you should indeed get deported.

Third Wave of Immigration and Today Crisis:
The Third Wave of Immigration occurred between 1880 and 1914, it was the rise of undocumented migration of people who left their home countries due to potato famine, religious persecution, and political instability. All this created a chain reaction of migration policies in response. During this time, the US government started to see immigrants as a threat to its social, economic, and political stability and it began to put more and more restrictions on immigrants, and more emphasis on border control and enforcement. The Third Wave of Immigration had the same issues that we have in today's “crisis” that are still relevant. Some of these issues are how many immigrants should enter the country each year?, and what criteria should be used to determine who is eligible? Also some concerns about how new immigrants will assimilate into American society and whether they will be able to find work. 

One way I've been thinking of as a solution that will be helpful to the US, is to work and give fame to other countries, by promoting the culture, history, financial/educational achievements of other countries. This way, it's possible for people from poor countries to stop thinking of the US as a dream country. There are the same or even better options like Canada, Spain, New Zealand and Italy. These countries have a good immigration policy and good financial/educational status. Also by doing some research, these were the countries where the majority of their immigrants move there for work. Once people see there are other options, the US could have a better view of their immigrants and see who is actually looking for work or who is a threat to the country.

Agricultural Revolution:
The Agricultural Revolution is the historical event that set in motion the chain of events that made our modern, urban way of life possible. It started with the Neolithic era, also known as The end of Nomadism,  is key to our modern era which started 10,000 BCE A.R. This was the beginning to a significant increase in food production, which led to an increment in population. As a result, people were able to settle down in one place and form permanent settlements. It made possible bigger communities, also driving to trade, and gathering. Also with more food available, people could specialize in other activities besides farming. This led to the development of new professions such as blacksmiths, potters, and weavers. In conclusion, the Agricultural Revolution changed forever how humans live, eat, and interact, paving the way for modern civilization.

The Disproportionate Effect of the Pandemic on Rural America:
After reading the article “COVID-19 and rural communities: Protecting rural lives and health” by By Jesse Bradford, Erica Coe, Kana Enomoto, and Matt White. The reader can better visualize the major factors of why the COVID-19 became such a threat in rural communities in America. The article specifically discusses four factors that appear to be contributing to the spread of the virus: underlying health status, socioeconomic vulnerability, access to care, and compliance with public health guidance. Also by noticing the racial and ethnic health inequities whose majorities are Hispanic, Black/African-Americans and American Indian/Alaska Native, which are the majority who live in these rural areas.

According to the Article, after Exhibit 2, it says “Highly diverse rural communities have experienced 1.6 times more COVID-19 deaths per capita than other rural counties.” This shows how rural communities in America have more deaths than other rural counties. The reasons for this are: Health status, according to the article, rural residents are more likely to be older and to have a health condition that exacerbates the effects of COVID-19 (Ex. pulmonary disease, diabetes). Socioeconomic vulnerability, the article says, “COVID-19 per 100,000 residents is 4.5 times higher in communities facing severe housing problems, 1.4 times higher in communities with a high poverty rate, and 1.4 times higher in communities facing food insecurity”. Lastly, the poor access to Healthcare and bad health guidance, the article added, “a recent McKinsey survey found rural respondents reported being less likely to observe COVID-19-related public health measures.” In conclusion, after reading the article “COVID-19 and rural communities: Protecting rural lives and health”, the reader can better understand the major factors that were at play and helped contribute to this disproportionate effect.

Ceremonial Speech
New Year’s Eve: (Reflection and Gratitude)

Good evening everyone.

Tonight, as we gather on New Year’s Eve, I would like to celebrate not only the upcoming year and future goals, but also our progress, the progress we had all this past year. I want to honor all those little decision, paths, ideas, actions that made us be here. This year came with challenges, growth, and moments that deserve to be celebrated.

I want to reflect on how far we have come, and give gratitude for the incredible accomplishments that shaped our year.

This year, each of us (my family) achieved something really meaningful for each one of us.

I want to start with my sister, who just recently started her PhD, that alone is already a milestone, not only for her but for our family. Years of hard work, perseverance, and dedication. Seeing her take that step is inspiring, and it shows what passion and commitment can lead to.

I would like to mention, the challenges some of us had, such as my mother.

Who after her car accident was fired of her job, and had real trouble in finding a new sustainable job. And after so much search, and jumping from job to job, finally found one perfect for her. That not only brought us relief, but pride and joy to all of us. It was a moment that reminded us how persistence pays off, and how important it is to have support along the way. 

And finally me!

And for me, this year was actually a turning point in my own journey. I not only was able to meet great people to be surrounded by. People that I might be able to call friends today, but also people who even though they didn’t stay, I still cherish the connection and the growth I had thanks to them. This year was also the year I took on challenging projects related to my major and my career — projects that helped me grow, get better at my skills, and move closer to the future I’m building for myself. 

I want to say that even though this year was not perfect, I’m proud of everyone.

These accomplishments, show our growth not just as individuals, but as a family.
We lifted each other up.
We celebrated the good days and pushed through the tough ones.
And we came out stronger together.

So tonight, before we look ahead to what’s next, I want us to pause and truly appreciate what we’ve already done. The hard work. The persistence. The courage. The quiet victories that might have gone unnoticed at the time.
This year was filled with progress. Because progress, doesnt come from one day to the next, it comes slowly, with percistance, step by step, doesn’t matter how small step is, what it matters is that now you are one step forward.

So let’s welcome the new year with celebration — not only for what might come next, but for everything we have accomplished in this one.

Thank you, and Happy New Year.

Group-Led Discussion Paper
Introduction
The ethical discussion about Euthanasia connects complex topics, such as autonomy, morality and societal responsibilities. This essay will explore the morality of suicide and the limits of autonomy, the debate between the distinction of killing and allowing to die, and finally the controversial concept of “duty to die”, contrasting the moral obligations to end one's life with the societal duty to support and care for the ill. This essay will present a personal resolution and opinion on these deeply complex topics at the end.

Morality of suicide and the limits of the autonomy
Voluntary Euthansia is mostly identify as suicide, and that is probably the best description you could give to it. But, does this self-determination morally justify someone else to kill that person? Dan.W. Brock argues that euthanasia is morally permissible based on two values: Autonomy and the individual well-being. Individuals should have the freedom to choose to make decisions about their own lives, including in the moments of suffering or hopeless cases. In cases where life is considered no longer a benefit but instead a burden for the patient, euthanasia can be considered to relieve suffering. This if we take only the autonomy argument. On the other hand, Daniel Callahan argues against Active Euthanasia/physician-assisted suicide. Callahan believed permittering legal euthanasia will bring a dangerous precedent of “consenting adult killing”, introducing possible problems and contradictions such with the role of medicine, which should focus on healing and alleviating suffering, not to cause death. He also mentions the slippery slope argument, where if society accepts euthanasia as an ethical option, it might go beyond what was originally its initial scope, almost like dominos pieces. He feared this could potentially allow non-voluntary or involuntary euthanasia, and could possibly end protections for vulnerable individuals, such as those with disabilities. Not only that, it's also mentioned how if we allow euthanasia based only on personal suffering or preferences it could make life-ending decisions more subjective and harder to regulate. Since it will be open to interpretation, it will be allowing potential abuse of the law.

Killing vs Allowing to Die
Some philosophers like J. Gay-Williams thinks that passive euthanasia is morally better than active euthanasia, since if we take the definition of euthanasia as “The intentional or deliberate killing of a person, typically to relieve suffering”, we therefore conclude passive euthanasia is not euthanasia, since it does not directly involve killing someone. Others, such as James Rachels, explain these are basically the same. PE is often morally acceptable, while AE is always wrong, but both of these are done intentionally and have the same end. Rachels explains those with the Smith–Jones scenario where one actively drowns his cousin while the other just lets him drown to his own death. Rachels argues that both actions are equally morally reprehensible because the intent and outcome are the same. Active euthanasia can often be more humane than passive euthanasia. For example, withholding treatment might prolong suffering, active euthanasia could end it quickly and painlessly. 
Duty to Die
What if pain is not the only factor to consider euthanasia? John Hardwig argues that death does not always come at the right time, and that the assumption that living longer is not always better, he suggests that people should make life-end-decisions a lot more rational and “compassionate”. The idea “Duty to Die” is based on the fact that in certain situations, individuals might have the moral obligation to end their lives if their own existence has become a burden financially, emotionally or physically for their families and loved ones. Felicia Ackerman challenges this idea by arguing that it puts under pressure the individuals to sacrifice their lives for the sake of their families, instead of actually focusing on compassion and assistance. Ackerman actually proposes an alternative perspective, a “Duty to Help”, She argues that society has a moral responsibility to provide care, resources, and emotional support to those who are suffering, rather than encouraging them to end their lives. 

Conclusion
	My personal resolution about the topic Euthanasia was fairly simple at the beginning, the autonomy of the patient overrides every other argument, that if we only talk about VE. Throughout the class lectures, I realised there is more beyond that. I agree with Jame Charles that PE and AE are ultimately the same, in fact I was very confused why AE was never permissible in most cases, but PE was somehow more permissible. If we accept euthanasia, I do have to agree with Callahan, that it will be against the usual role of medicine and it will probably(even though this is speculative) increase the risk for those who cannot give consent and how very subjective the pain one person can feel from the rest. The duty to die concept is reasonable but it is not compassionate at all. Individuals should not feel pressure to sacrifice their lives for the sake of their families and should not even believe they should. And neither should they feel the pressure to help them only because they are family. It is desirable and we assume we should do it, and most of the time it is reasonable to help for real loved families to do so, but there's no real duty.

Euthanasia Review
Main Thesis
The article “Duty to Die” VS The Duty to Help the Ill Stay Alive, by Felicia Ackerman explores and criticizes the idea of “Duty to Die” made by John Hardwig. Ackerman challenges it by raising questions of morality, declaring Hardwig is biased on who has the “Duty to Die”, spotting undeclared distinctions between burdening children and/or spouses, describing the paradox of the selfless invalid, emphasizing the importance of compassion, and raising a new societal duty to help those who are ill instead of killing them. This essay will go through the arguments made against Hardwig and finally a personal resolution of these.
Bias on Duty to Die Concept
Ackerman's most stated argument to the Duty to Die concept represents a clear bias against the ones that are old and sick, making a devaluation in their persona, and how even some old individuals may be inclined to believe in such duty. She first made the simile in how women used to be oppressed by the idea they should be housewives, and anything away from that lifestyle was being a burden for the family, and how some of them may have felt bad and/or believe it was okay. Pointing society has a clear bias at the time in seeing women’s careers but not men’s. Just like how it is also mentioned how old sick individuals can be considered burdens or less-self sacrifice(for those who want to live) but “college-bound teenagers” are not. Since when we talk about selfishness, a teenager’s decision to accept the college tuition money that could be used to extend his father’s life are also selfish decisions. 
The author criticize Hardwig in his arguments to consider what is a burden, examples like having to take care of someone 24/7, seven days a week; a partner who is increasingly distant, uncommunicative, unreachable; no opportunity to go out to see friends in/out the house; financial struggles to pay for health, etc. According to Ackerman these are astonishingly weak and show Hardwig’s bias even more. She raised questions such as if a real loving family would support a loving member’s suicide to stop being a burden for the family, she also compares how its considered a burden someone who needs care of 24/7 when babies have the same effect, and how most of the time the baby forces the mothers(with unhelpful husbands) to a major lifestyle change. It is also argued how friendship just doesn't disappear, methods like e-mail or the telephone help us stay in touch with friends. 
Duty to Die to avoid burdening to children vs Duty to Die to avoid burdening to spouses
The author expresses how Hardwig failed in making a distinction between children and spouses. In the case of children-to-parents, the parents often had made sacrifices for their child, therefore the child “owes” them some kind of service in times of sickness.
	On the other hand, marriages are different and more relevant in two ways: (1) It doesn't start with a long period of one-sided caregiving, (2) Marriages are freely entered into by both parties. According to Ackerman, it gives the opportunity for a previous discussion and agreement that will create their own caregiving duties in the future. But this still has its own problems: First, this discussion may be completely imaginary and hypothetical, and in the case of agreeing to die, at the moment of truth, one can totally change their mind. Secondly, this discussion might be too “cold-blooded and destructive” for the families, and how even if it's done when sickness is already present, it wouldn't “strengthen the relationship” like Harwig expresses it will. Ackerman concludes, it's better to have these prenuptial agreements before, which will give the couple the option to separate.
Paradox of the selfless invalid
Ackerman explains that the position of someone elderly ill deciding to commit suicide for the sake of its family, in extreme cases, creates a paradox, “the paradox of the selfless invalid”. It refers to the situation where a person, out of selflessness, considers ending their life to avoid being a burden on their loved ones. However, this very act of selflessness can create an unintended sense of obligation, pressuring the individual to make such a decision even if they might not truly want to. It also generates tension between the family since they may also feel potential guilt. Ackerman argues decent and loving families will recognize this decision ignoble, and they will/should be willing to help and make sacrifices for the patient's well being.
Duty to Aid
Ackermans goes through the duty to die guidelines of Hardwig. She critiques the concept of these and instead advocates for a societal duty to provide care and support to the ill following the same duty to die guidelines. Ackerman argues that the focus should be on compassion, empathy, and ensuring that individuals receive the help they need to live with dignity, rather than pressuring them to consider ending their lives for the convenience of others.
Sacrificial Suicide
Short but interesting, Ackerman critics how Hardwig fails to consider that a sacrifical suicide of someone who is healthy can also be an unburden for the family. Explains a hypothetical situation of a man who was relative in a good position on life, being downsized to earn minimum wage, move to a bad neighborhood, etc, but there is a solution where you can use the life insurance under the common-two year “suicide clause”, under Hardwig guidelines, you can consider the duty to die, since you had a rich life, your family has done sacrifices for you, and we can even say it was your own fault that you have little in the way of savings because you lived a relatively lavish lifestyle instead of saving. Would you have the duty to die or deprive your family from your life insurance money?

Conclusion
	I agree on many of the critics, mostly on the obvious bias Hardwig has, since if we start talking about selfishness and/or individualism, the act of suicide due to be a burden for your family members are both selfish. Your family for wanting you to die and not having you as a burden, and you for wanting to live. The arguments Ackerman makes against what is a burden are also pretty strong, since Hardwig is hyperbolizing these burdens when you are caregiving for someone. Something also important was to distinguish between avoiding burden to children and spouses, since these are different relationships, and loved the advice of having prenuptial agreements of caregiving duties for the future with your partner. The paradox of the selfless invalid was also very okay, because it represents(I hope) most families if their old sick familiar decides to commit suicide due to consider himself a burden. The emphasis Ackerman puts on helping others rather than telling them to die on the duty to aid section, it's a lot more humane, and I personally, whatever the case, if I was the husband/son/the old sick man, I would love to give and receive support from my family. Still I believe it depends on the situation of the family and the autonomy of the patient. Overall a nice article.

Abortion Review
Main Thesis
The article “A Defense of Abortion” written by Judith Jarvis Thomson, presents the argument that in certain situations, the woman’s right can outweigh the baby’s right. The author explains these situations with various analogies, for example the Violinist Analogy, House Analogy, etc. These points of view and analogies are only when we agree the fetus is a human being since the moment of conception, otherwise we can discard all that was said. This essay will summarize the various arguments and at the end a personal evaluation of these.

Summary of the Arguments
The first argument Thomson makes is that in case the woman’s health is in danger because of the baby, it seems permissible to do abortion, but only it can be done by herself, because she “can't just wait passively to her death”, in this case it will be classify as in self-defense to do abortion. The second and third section of the article argues whether a third party should have the duty to perform the abortion due to the mother’s request. Thomson says it should be a duty when the mother’s life is at stake. And how the woman doesn't owe the right to life to the baby, “it is a kindness choice, but not something you owe him”. 
The fourth section is in addition to the section before, claiming the right to life is not in the right not to be killed, but instead is the right not to be killed unjustly. The author remarks the situation of a pregnancy due to rape, where the baby was not “invited” to the woman’s body. Therefore, it is not unjust killing (Still the author leaves it open for further debate). Section number five adds more to this, saying that you as a person(woman), victim of rape, don’t have the right to consent in having the child, it can be seen as self-centered, callous, indecent, but not unjust. Section six, talks about the Good Samaritan and the Minimally Decent Samaritan, where the author concludes no one is required to be a “Good Samaritan”. We are not morally required to act as one and then it goes back to the Violinist Analogy, where if you unplug from him, “you will be sorry but you have your own life to lead”.
Finally the article talks more about the responsibility the mother(and father) should have towards the baby, claiming that if the parents had assumed responsibility, didn't try to prevent pregnancy, did not have an abortion, but rather took it home and had it, then they can't just withdraw the responsibility from it. But if they took all the precautions, they may decide whether to take responsibility or not for the baby.

Conclusion / Personal Evaluation
My personal evaluation about the article is that I mostly agree with everything that was said. Supposing I understood the arguments correctly, I believe that abortion should be legal and if we agree that the fetus is a human being at the moment of conception, it is obvious the mother’s right to live outweigh the rights of the baby, of course in the situation when the mothe’s life is at risk, rape or incest. But I would also agree with the mother’s choice to either not have or not have the baby, because at the end, when having an unwanted child, life for both parents and baby will not be the best. And I love how the author calls for common sense in laws that may harm-mentally and socially the life of the mother, obligating her to have an unwanted pregnancy against her will. Some of the analogies were kind of confusing, I personally would’ve not used much of these, but instead real-life experiences. Still it was a nice way to explain the author's point of view and overall a good defense for abortion.

Did Mrs. Veal Really Appeared?
In the short story “A RELATION OF THE APPARITION OF MRS. VEAL”, tells the story of Mrs. Bargrave met with her childhood friend Mrs. Veal, who died a day before the meeting. In the story it is mentioned many details of Mrs. Veal apparition and how these interact with Mrs. Bargrave, and also Mrs. Bargrave situation as a housewife. The story brings so well details of the apparition that makes it sound very realistic in many ways, such as the physical interactions and specific details of Mrs. Veal confirmed later from her brother. On the other hand, it also jumps the doubt of truth by some facts made in the story. Will be going through how the text show Mrs. Veal did appear and how it is also acceptable to not believe in it.
First, Mrs.Bargrave tells us many details about the spirit of Mrs. Veal and how these two interacted, having physical interactions with her and the real world. According to the story, Mrs.Veal had not only talked to Mrs. Bargrave but also knocked the door, touched her knee, and even mentioned she had a physical limitation where we can see on this part:
“Says Mrs. Veal, Mr. Norris has a fine copy of verses, called Friendship in Perfection, which I wonderfully admire. Have you seen the book? says Mrs. Veal. No, says Mrs. Bargrave, but I have the verses of my own writing out. Have you? says Mrs. Veal, then fetch them. Which she did from above stairs, and offered them to Mrs. Veal to read, who refused, and waived the thing, saying, holding down her head would make it ache; and then desired Mrs. Bargrave read them to her, which she did.”
This is interesting, saying “holding down her head would make it ache”, suggesting that ghosts have physical sensations which is far from what it's usually thought of as ghosts in the present, giving a big point of realism to the apparition.
Also, another very relevant aspect of the story, is how Mrs. Veal reveals a lot of secrets that only she and/or her brother knew, such as the damaged gown made of scoured silk, also this being confirmed by the same Mrs. Veal’s brother; how Mr. Bretton was giving her ten pounds a year; and lastly, how Mrs. Veal requested to Mrs. Bargrave writes to her brother, and tells him how to distribute her mourning rings and where it was, essentially her will, “she said to Mrs. Bargrave, she would have her write a letter to her brother, and tell him, she would have him give rings to such and such; and that there was a purse of gold in her cabinet(later found in a comb-box), and that she would have two broad pieces given to her cousin Watson.” All these secrets are can be considered key arguments to believe in the story of Mrs. Bargrave was true and that Mrs. Veal indeed appeared to her.
However, to not believe its story is also acceptable. As its related in the story, Mrs. Bargrave is the only one who has seen Mrs.Veal, after her death, being this very fortunate for her to be the only witness, that way, she is the only one who can confirm it and tell the story. Such as the majority of ghost stories, are one-on-one interactions, being this convenient to avoid external confrontations. According to the story, she was in very much suffering from a “wicked-husband”, “ Mrs. Bargrave, notwithstanding the ill-usage of a very wicked husband…”. With the story, she became relatively famous, “She says, She had a gentleman who came thirty miles to her to hear the relation; and that she had told it to a room full of people at a time. Several particular gentlemen have had the story from Mrs. Bargrave's own mouth”. More than one could think the motivation of Mrs. Bargrave to protect herself from the ill-usage of her husband was to bring people from other parts telling an invented story of her friend of hers’ death, to avoid her husband. 
My personal resolution about the story is that if I believe or not in the appearance it's that I do not believe. My household, my culture in general, has been full of ghost stories, especially from my very own mom. I have to admit it was hard to choose whichever believed or not, I’m more inclined to believe the story that Mrs. Bargrave tells it is true, in the way the author of the story actually heard the story from a real person and that it's not pure fiction, but the fact that this supernatural event even happened in real life it's hard to believe. Just like every other case of spirits and ghosts I believe most of them think they are real because they firmly believe they exist, so therefore they find any excuse to think that it actually happened to them. I personally have never witnessed or experienced or felt any spirit, ghost, or shadow in my entire life. About the story Mrs. Bargrave says, assuming she was actually real and not just an urban myth, I believe it may have been even a dream of her having this hidden and not acceptable love at the time for Mrs.Veal. At the end of the day, this was a story published 300+ years ago, from various secondary sources, mouth to mouth. It is very probable that we will never know what and how everything happened in reality.

My Neighborhood Ballet: 
Place: Los Olivos, Lima, Peru.
Going through my memories, when I was a kid, around 6:00 am in the morning, you could hear a crowing rooster in the distance singing the good morning to all the neighborhood. This is the time where all the adults wake up and get ready to work. Just like my neighbor, also my aunt, Mrs. Rodriguez gets out to put her own small stall to sell her food. As some other kiosks right in front of the house and around the corner start to open. This is the time the sun gets through your eyes, calling you to wake up.
From the memories of my eyes, around 7:00 am kids get up to go to school, getting ready by their moms, to wear their school uniform, after walking together, the kids form a straight line before getting into class. Parents leaving their children to their luck, with a bunch of unknown people. This is the time the teacher Mrs.Luz tells the kids to do fun activities like drawing, and singing the alphabet. This is also the time where people start to talk among themselves, words getting in everyone's ears.
From the memories of my eyes, around 3:00 pm, families start to gather together to eat the second meal of the day. Always with 4-5 or more members eating together at the big table. This is the time when everyone forgets the sins of others, laughs and jokes and lives with each other. This is also the time when a kid named Luis gets money out of his aunt's purse. 
From the memories of my eyes, around 5:00 pm, the sun gets as big as it can get, the neighborhood kids playing soccer together, desiring to be the best from everyone else. This is also the time teenagers get around, to do homework and worry about classmates. From the memory of my eyes, dogs without any kind of leash are abundant in every park or house, barking at you. This is also the time when Ms Christina arrives with her son to join the game with everyone. 
From the memories of my ears, around 7:00 - 8:00 pm, the moon comes up to the sky, and you can hear the music of more than one house partying. This is the time where the aunts, uncles, family friends get together to drink alcohol all night, with the doors open, nobody cares if someone gets inside to rob. This is the time where uncle Marcos gives to his nephews and nieces money to buy anything from the store. 
From the memories of my mind, around 9:00 - 10:00 pm, kids went to sleep if they were lucky that their house wasn't full of music and people dancing, otherwise they stayed up all night. From the memories of my young self, no one had the virtue to stop and start thinking about tomorrow. Everyone seems to be happy and careless, probably because when they talk to you the only thing they could see was an innocent child.

Short Paper 2:
According to Hossenfelder, she describes function as the “point” of something, saying examples like the point of cell walls is to protect the organism, the point of earthquakes is to release stress, etc. Basically, the action or the outcome of something. While the “intended purpose” is the reason or the “Why?” for these actions/outcomes. “What's the purpose of the universe?” This tries to find an explanation of a teleological question, to find the point/function and why it is for. Unlike in physics, things are explained in terms of how and what they are/what we can observe. According to Hossenfelder, if you try to find the answer in scientific means, you're unlikely to find any form of intention or purpose. In my opinion, I think the universe doesn't have any more purpose than to just exist. I felt like they were talking about the universe as a type of invention or life to fulfill a purpose, which it's not necessary, just like nipples in men.

Why Are Sundays So Depressing? - The Strokes:
“Why Are Sundays So Depressing?” It's a song produced by The Strokes, released in their last album “The New Abnormal” on April 10, 2020, winner of the grammy for the Best Rock Album in 2021. The album in general can be qualified as indie rock, new wave or even electronica. “Why Are Sundays So Depressing?”, is probably my 2nd favorite song from the album, and totally going in my top 10 best songs of the band, even though all of their songs are really astonishing. Next I will be covering all the details of the song, such as its dynamics, tone, rhythm, melody, texture, and more. Everything to explain why I firmly believe the song and the band The Strokes is extraordinary and like many people have called them before, “The Saviors of Rock”.
For more context, The Strokes is composed of 5 members: 1 singer, 2 guitarists, 1 bass, and 1 drummer. Starting from the beginning, from 0:00-0:22, we can hear a perfect timbre for each instrument. First it starts with just the drums creating the beat, and then it goes adding more instruments like the first electric guitar, and then a second electric guitar goes in, harmonizing with the first one, creating the melody. Also, the tones of these instruments are kind of brighter with those high notes. Right after that, during 0:23-0:55, we have the first verse of the song. Now, the voice we are listening here is from Julian Casablancas, who is classified as a baritone, his voice had a slurry and raspy quality while he sings, this was really noticeable in their early albums of the band, but throughout the years he has been refined it and having less raspiness and more well rounded voice. At this point we can notice and conclude the song it's totally homophonic, the total attention is going to his voice leaving the melody as the background music. At the beginning in 00:55-1:00, it ends the pre-chorus, then when Julian finishes singing, it gives free and total attention to the drums. After the minute 1:00, it's when the Chorus comes in, changing the chords of the guitars and adding this new weird sound, that strangely compliments really well to the new melody. Also we can see the tempo of the songs goes lower here, Julian begins to longing the words a lot more and it creates this feeling of sadness or melancholiness, and after each verse the dynamics of the voice goes decrescendo, even creating this effect of echo. 
Right after the end of the Chorus we have the Post-Chorus, from 1:31-1:50, where the second guitar changes its total tone and chords, giving this new and weird sound of guitar, a great example of the band experimenting with these new sounds. We also can notice the new tempo, going faster and again giving full attention to Julian’s voice. After 1:50, the second verse begins, which follows the same metric from the first one; the same goes with the Chorus. In the minute 2:58 the chorus ends, and the song gives us the post-chorus with a total change of the dynamics in the guitars and Julian's voice where now it's the guitars having the majority of the attention and it's his voice the one as the background even though we can hear how its range goes really high but his dynamics stays low. After that, during 3:15, we get into the new verse and the change goes back to normal. Played with the same melody of the first verse, but the difference from the first one and second one, it’s Julian’s voice, singing more loud, and less clearly, with more feelings. At 3:30, Julian starts singing using imitation, repeating “I stay hungry” and then changing it to “Ain't getting angry“. At the end, at 3:52 the song goes on by itself with no voice and finishes with the verse’s melody. Around the minute 4:24-4:27 the melody ends with, in my opinion, a period. 
Finally, after all things considered, Why are Sundays So Depressing? By The Strokes, is probably a masterpiece for those who have a superior developed level of musical taste. Using these new sounds of guitar with heavy synthesizers, echos, etc. During all this song we can have this feeling of the tone very nostalgic, but joyable and even danceable. The most iconic thing about the song, also including the rest of their songs of the band, is Julian’s voice, which through the years has demonstrated the big range between his voice’s pitches. The Strokes have become one of my favorite bands these recent years, since their first release in 2001 with their album "It's This It”, till their last album “The New Abnormal”, in 2020. Have given us with so many different styles of songs, going from alternative rock, to garage/indie rock and even vintage. No doubt that this song represents really well what The Strokes have become as a band.

Off Character Comments:
Taking off my character hat, I must say I learned a lot about Enlightenment and human rights in general. The game was fun to be in. Probably the most interesting thing about it was to see the two different sides of the coin, the left and the right wing. And funny how the ones who used violence/the sectional leaders ended up taking control. The real French revolution ended up being bloody, even considered as a failure. Ours ended up being as bad as the real one or even worse. I learned about Rousseau, about Burke, about Montesquieu, Adam Smith, Madame de Gauge. No doubt it gives you a better understanding of where the world we live in comes from and about human nature overall. and how we are still fighting to comprehend or to obtain the sweet rewards of it.

Moon Landing Hoax:
	I think everyone is pretty informed about the first man who took the first step on the moon, Neil Amstrong. Everything happened during the Cold War (1979–1985), The United States vs The Soviet Union, fighting indirectly to see which country had more global influence, struggling for dominance. Having “races” in different fields, such as the nuclear weapons race and the most important the Space Race. The most known NASA, succeeded in preparing and landing the first humans on the Moon from 1968 to 1972, with the Apollo Program. Apollo 11 mission goal was accomplished when astronauts Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin landed and walked on the lunar surface and then landed safely on Earth. Six more space flights were done afterwards, where twelve people walked on the Moon, recording the big and astonishing achievement; “That's one small step for a man, one giant leap for mankind.” But, what happens if I tell you all that was just fake? An hoax? What if the US was so desperate to win the Space Race against the Soviets that it faked recordings and photos about the landing?

Bill Kaysing was the man who initiated this conspiracy about the moon landing being faked. Kaysing had some relevance due to the fact that he did actually contribute to the US space program. He was an employee of Rocketdyne, a company that helped to design the Saturn V rocket engines. Years later he came out with a book title: “We Never Went to The Moon” that says everything was fake, and it introduced the arguments that “proved” it. He did believe there was enough technology at the time to perhaps send a crewed rocket to the Moon, …but not enough technology developed to return the crew safely to Earth. Some arguments he gave in the book were: NASA lacked the technical expertise to put a man on the Moon; The absence of stars in lunar surface photographs was indicative of a hoax; There were unexplained optical anomalies in the photographs taken on the Moon, etc. To be honest, since the first Apollo mission, there was always some skepticism if we really landed on the moon, but this speculative group has been extending, specially aided by a youth movement that does not remember what went down in the Apollo era. So much the conspiracy sounded that a show “USA Today” on 2001, reported in the aftermath of the show: “According to Fox and its respectfully interviewed ‘experts’—a constellation of ludicrously marginal and utterly uncredentialed ‘investigative journalists’—the United States grew so eager to defeat the Soviets in the intensely competitive 1960s space race that it faked all six Apollo missions."(Website 1). Also a poll around 2004, among Americans between 18 and 24 years old “27% expressed doubts that NASA went to the Moon,” according to pollster Mary Lynne Dittmar. (Website 1).

 If we want to take it easy, we could say Doubt it's not the same as Denial, but it's something that has been increasing in the past years. I personally think skepticism is something great, but horrible when it only stays there. People who believe in the Moon Landing Hoax lack understanding of science and fail to employ critical analytical skills, which make them more susceptible to this type of deception. Something so simple to prove that it's wrong/erroneous, such as the anomaly of the The flapping flag, is accused of being fake because in the moon there's no air, which makes it impossible for the flag to be flapping. Just with some imagination and analyzing the recordings we can notice how the flag poll it's not a normal one, it is specialized for the flag to extend and show entirely otherwise it will be falling. But then they say, “But it appears to wave back and forth”, this is because when the astronauts were putting it in, they rotated it back and forth to better dig into the lunar soil, which made the flag ripple. Also we can’t forget to mention that we didn't only extract Moon Rocks for research, we also have left some equipment, such as reflectors used for precise measurements of the distance of Earth to the Moon. Many remain operational today, reflecting lasers off surfaces that were installed in Apollo 11, 14 and 15. Conclusion, we did land on the moon!

INTRODUCTION: 
All my life I thought I was the hero. I thought I was the one who gave people their smiles, that their lives became better for just meeting me. I have reasons to think this, but when I look back on time, I can see how I was, in some occasions, 
the one to be hated with all reason. Sometimes it makes me think now that everytime I suffer, that it's my karma for being a piece of shit in the past. The thing is, was I really that bad? Maybe it was simple ignorance or not knowing 
priorities. The first one I can think of it's the day I showed abusive behavior. 
CHAPTER 1: 
Around when I was 6, I used to play a lot with my cousins, I never left the house at least not too far besides the front of it. So most of my friends were the people who lived next to, which curiously were my family too. I used to play with my cousin Jeff, he was one year older than me, white, brown almost blonde hair, taller at the time, he was indeed, my first best friend. I remember doing most things with him, eating together, playing together, learning together, we 
never went to the same school. Never saw him on break time, but he was definitely at my house since her mom was friend of my mom. Some times one of my aunts who lives out of town would come to my house to visit my mom. With her she usually came with her daughters. One of them, Mary, same age as me, just one month older. Was just like me, brown skin, black hair, same eye color. The three of us use to play hide and seek and more games I dont remember anymore. In one occasion, we had a fight, between me and Mary, she was yelling at me, I don't remember about what we were discussing, but I felt with the authority to slap her in the face. I wonder where did I saw that to even do it. Not the first time I felt the necessity to slap someone when they disagree with me or when they say something I definitely hate, with the purpose to make me mad. She went running, crying across the house. Jeff, who was there the whole situation, told me: "a man, never hits a women". Reason came to me, I don't remember feeling exactly bad, but I knew it was wrong. I went to her and I apologize for what I did. She completely forgave me and started hugging like if nothing ever happened. Later on she used to 
say I was her favorite cousin. It's really funny 
how this event is the one I remember the most vividly about my childhood. 
CHAPTER 2: 
Lying is something I was exposed to since my very first memory, watching my mom robbing money from a wallet, promises that never took place. I don't think I even heard that lying was a bad thing, I know this from my own experience with the act. My parents sent me to a summer school program, one that I never wanted to go in the first place, since I didn't have any friend at it. I wanted instead to stay home and waste time playing games in my room alone. My sister, used to wait for me, walk me to where the bus stops and wait for me to get in to make sure I was indeed going to the program. That happened only 2 times. The rest of the days, I went alone, where I definitely took the opportunity to simply not getting in. My parents went to work, my sister had her own program to go. So I simple stayed home and when they came, I would simply say it was okay today at the program. They believed me. It was until the end of the month where I was decided to go 
again. But the teacher on the bus, had to call my mom to tell her all the days I went missing. Staying outside of the bus, kids could see me crying, I was nervous, because I knew what I did was wrong. I honestly don't remember that my parents did anything when they got the news. Besides my mom yelling and preaching to me. Everything stayed the same. Like if it wasn't a big deal, or maybe it's my brain who totally ejected that piece of memory, because I simply don't remember the outcome of that act. I only remember how it didn't affect me in any way the relationship I had with my parents. 
CHAPTER 3: 
Moving forward with my teenage years, I got to be a lucky guy, who girls considered me attractive, or cute. For a moment in my live I did thought I was perfect. I thought I had everything anyone could ask, a family, good grades, a gilfriend, friends, games, property, etc. In my mind that was the perfect live. It didn't took long for life itself to bury me under my own 
insecurities, that I didn't have when I was young. Going through relationships, I found my self with a girl, Yei, she was new, she liked me, and I 
liked her, it's not like she was the most beautiful girl, but I definitely liked her. I was lucky to be able to get close to her, I was in my own way weird, just like her, but with the potential of getting close to more people. She more than me. Before I even catch my eyes on her, I had a friend who already had a crush on her. Carl was my friend since 7th grade, I don't remember exactly how he became my friend, since he and I never had much in common, besides some bands we liked. He was fat, nerd, bad at sports, shy, weird, people used to call him weird, 
nobody liked him. But I was next to him, at first I didn't thought why or if I should stay next to him, but then I realized, having him next to me, 
simply made me look better. I never took this as a reason to stay with him but it was true in a way. He was my only friend that year, but I didn't know what a friend was. I started dating Yei, she and I started to make out in front of everyone at lunch time, Carl who told me she was the girl of his dreams, was getting shows of tongue kisses from his "only friend" with his crush. I never thought of him, I never stopped to think how he felt. I was unaware of the damage I was 
generating everytime I invited her to sit with us. 
It was a disaster that ended up bad for me. Yei broke up with me, for good reasons. I was destroyed, because in a way, she was the only one I truly liked in all my life until that point. Then another girl enters the class. 
CHAPTER 4: 
She was an old friend, me and Carl already knew. Carl was the type of guy who had crushes on everyone. He used to tell me how she liked this girl since last year, I wonder how can he even do that, liking someone and at the same time someone else? This old friend, Kayla, was actually an ex of mine, we dated for a week. 2 years ago. Never saw her again until that day she came, we did text before, where she told me she was moving and transferring schools. The day she came, she came directly to say hi to me, she hugged both of us, Carl and me. Everyone was shocked since, I only was friends with Carl, weird enough was to see someone who was our friend. I was sad from my break up, and Kayla was in love with me. She had a crush on me. Yei 
on the other hand, totally forgot about me within a week, dating a guy who was twice my size. Trying to reflect, I ask Carl if I was able to date 
her, he told me no, not in a single life time. I still did. My selfishness took control of my body, and made damage to my only friend at the time. She and I dated and me and Carl stopped talking. 
CHAPTER 5: 
I, now, consider myself a good option for anyone who wants a relationship with me, I have grown from my past mistakes, generated a personal philosophy about how relationships should work and be. I consider every type of jealousy act, as toxic. Shouldn't happen at all. It only 
demonstrates insecurity, something I don't want to have. My relationship with Kayla was normal at the beginning, with that little piece of toxicity every relationship has. Told her all my insecurities. She told me hers too. She told me, she was abused before, who? She doesn't knows. One time, was shocking, 2 times was depressing and desperate, 3 times was getting weird. Not like I didn't believe her, but they were other things that my gullible self would simple not think through, she was my girlfriend, why would she lie about everything of her life? She was the first one, who I had intimacy, we were prepared, we wanted to do it. After some time 
we kept doing it until one day, she told me she didn't want to. I felt undesired. I got mad, my old self was selfish and didn't understand free will. She, later I know, took pity on me, and accepted because she saw I got mad. There were situations where we were doing it and I ask her if she liked it, only for her to say, "no, but just for you". Do you like when I touch you? "Most of the time no". I didn't get it. One day, she came home, as usual to do it, we were playing role play, as we have tried before, I insisted more than the usual, she pushed me, and cried. I got scared because at the time, she was everything I loved. Doing damage to the person you love the most, I hated myself. She forgave me, and after some months she broke up with me to start dating my best friend. And started to say fasly that I was an abuser, manipulator and rapist to all my friends, to make them leave me. It didn't happen, lucky for me, but it completely destroyed my mental health and social life. 
CHPATER 6: 
After some years, stuff have changed, Carl and I became friends again. I learned what is to be betrayed, and I was starting a new life at 
college. When I met Sarah. Online. She was perfect for a specific kind of men. When I look back, I think how perfect she was in the sense of true love. Or at least with the idea. I was simply looking for something else, something that I was missing in all my past relationships, connection, real connection. We had a long distance relationship, she was far enough to make my wallet cry, she was alone enough to always wanting to call me, and she was desperate enough to wanting to move and have children within 2 years from meeting her. I felt rushed, I felt unprepared, I started to wonder, Is this what I want? Is this what I was looking for? Do I really want this? Do I really love you? I thought I was the kind of men who will love you as far as you love me. But I couldn't make it with her. She was simply not for me. Or more like, I was not for her. Our relationship wasn't perfect, something she never understood, I gave her false hopes. Everyday I stayed with her, was simple another stab in her back, lying to her that I loved her. I knew there was going to be a day where we were gonna break up. But I still stayed so long. When I told her to broke up. She cried, alot. I felt bad because, in a sense I was scared 
of doing a bad decision, and sad because I hate seeing people that I respect crying. 
CHAPTER 7: 
We are getting closer to nowadays of my life. Right now I 20 years old, and I feel I have lived a lot, in terms of relationships and philosophy of life. I feel I have suffered, healed, got betrayed but still found my own way to learn and to wish for a good outcome. 
The last thing that is ruminating my mind lately is of my last situationship. I often don't have situationships, in fact this was my first one. She was the gilfriend of an old friend who I haven't talk to in years. I don't remember why but we followed eachother already. One summer, later l know from a friend that she and him broke up, honestly never knew she was, I remember seeing stories / post of them together, I said good for him, I actually liked and missed the guy because he was actually one of my good friends. Eitherway, she texted me randomly, praising my music. I reply normally, which she answered with some non-follow up message. Which later I simply leave on seen. She later 
does the same and I do the same again. And suddenly she texts backs again asking about personal stuff and opinions. That's when I 
thought, "she clearly wants to talk". And that's when it's started. We started to hangout for a while, it was obvious for me she liked me, at the beginning I wasn't sure if I should like her back, so I myself had my own dilemmas in what to do with her, time goes by and she does what she is good at, ghosting. I don't fall for any of this, if you don't talk to me I don't talk to you. But I missed her. There is really no explanation why but every time she left I missed her like no one, and the worst thing is that she comes back. And every time she did I felt good, praised, that I matter to her, but now I know it was simply her way of being, toxic, avoiding responsibility, she tried to do the right thing, she confessed to.me she was still in love her ex, I should've blocked her there. I told her is play and that I respect her decision, but she came back after a month, a month I was missing her like crazy. Again, no real explanation. 
In one of these come backs she tells me she 
missed me, and that in fact she asked me to 
kiss her. I definitely did. But the same day I told her we are not for eachother, I was looking for 
my 
best interest, she is not someone I want. But I did. The next time we saw eachother I asked if 
I could kiss her, she rejected me. That was the moment I knew, that I was wasting my time, I remember feeling the love my eyes had fading away when she said that, I wonder if she noticed. 
Skipping a lot of parts, I ended up writing her a letter, basically saying all my thoughts from the day we met till that day. Where in the end I tell her I love her. I was hiding my feelings from her, trying to be a friend when I clearly wanted more, I now know, I can't be friends with someone I like that much. But, at the time, when she received the letter, the first thing she did was to avoid me. 
This might be because I say in the letter that she doesn't have to say anything, because I know what's the answer. The only reason why we never got to be together was because she didn't want to. Whether was because she was 
not ready or she simply didn't like me enough. It didn't matter, I should've left way long ago. 
We finally stopped talking, the first weeks were bad, but after each day that passes, the feeling faded away, not completely but now I don't feel the need. 
I feel this was not definitely my mistake, yes, I lied, but I tried to have my way around, to make everything good, even though that might hurt me. When I gave her the letter I felt there was nothing else to say, and when she stopped talking to me I guess that's the answer I needed. I understand now. I want to give love and receive love. She stopped, so I stopped. Isn't that what love is? You don't chase for love, you meet someone who wants you just how you are, of course you have to be someone worth of loving, but the simply baseline for that is to be a human being. 
CHAPTER 8: 
I wonder what other bad thing I would seek redemption for....

CHAPTER 1: 
I was born from the desire of my dad of having a boy, after having only girls, he finally got his reward. From my early life I never put thoughts on anything, I was a natural spectator. It was when I finally went to school I discovered my reaction I have against other humans. Never was the loud or clown type, not like I didn't want to be, there was already one. Surprisingly I always had friends on my side, if you could call them friends, people who I could joke and laugh with, without feeling weird. I don't feel like I was the center of attention, not even once, but I never felt ignored either, I was lucky. 
Pre-school was weird enough for me, since I feel I had every type of classmates. The clown, the popular, the smart one, the weird one, and of course the other people who are unnoticeable whether because I never spoke to them or because they never did anything that make me remember them. Like I said, I was lucky, not only because I was surrounded by friends or because I was never considered be the weird type, but because I was somehow attractive to my girl 
classmates. One occasion I declare myself to Rose, I would be lying if I try to describe her, but this was my first time declaring my love and interest to someone, without fear, without thinking in the outcome, I looked her in the eye, hold her hands, and asked her. She said yes. | wasn't sure what was I expecting, but it felt nice. 
Not too much after, my relationship with Rose ended when we both graduated from Pre- school, we never saw eachother again, never knew what happened to her. Middle-school was a whole new bucket of experiences, most of them not relevant to tell. But the first time I felt 
humiliated. Not sure how it started, but Girls always wanted to play with me, and by playing I mean pushing me to one another if I were some kind of ball, saying to one another "I want him", I don't think this the usual type of bullying people get. I felt so abused, that I couldn't bare to cry because all I wanted was to them to stop. The teacher grounded them, I was finally in peace. This was also the time I went to many different schools, one better than others, I always wondered why my parents couldn't just stick to one, is not like we moved from the house, they 
just thought one school was better than the other, I guess. Due to this exchange of schools, I never really stayed with a friend group, the friends I could get for one year, suddenly disappeared forever the next one, it was so usual that I never thought of it, it just what happens, it just how it is, everyone goes through it, I thought. 
CHAPTER 2: 
Around when I was twelve, I finally got what they call, a structured consciousness. I was finally able to think logically and evaluate pros and cons depending of their outcome. My family moved out of the country, one thing was to have multiple friends who disappeared but this time was all my family and neighbors who did, 
shoking at first, but easy to forget. My parents started to work day and night, leaving me and my sister by our own all day. I had time to get into different stuff, most of them derived from my sister activities, she was a rock-nerd, so I become without realizing also one. Having to surface the internet by myself, I found out God, who I was taught, was all overpower and kindness, is actually fake, a fraud, a phony, 
unrealistic. Having my belief destroyed with concrete reasoning, everytime I went to look at the mirror, I just saw what I was, an animal made of meat. I would be lying if that realization didn't change a lot of my way of thinking, now I can see how many of my problems or dilemmas at very young age came from this early realization. 
I never understood how people could express their sadness to everyone, making it so easily to see, making people worry about you, I wonder what exactly made me feel disappointed everytime I see someone doing it, maybe it was because I never knew what to do, or because I always compare it to myself, who could never do it because I always hated people worrying about me. I know where this feeling come from, my parents. They always seemed to be in some kind of problem, struggling. Maybe because they were separated since I have memory, and having to raised two childs without love it's the most demanding and stressful thing to do. Since we moved out, they didn't really have time to spend with me or my sister, makes you think that made us close, but not even a bit. Feeling 
alone was something normal on my house, my own worries were only mine, nobody had to know about them, no one asked either, so it was common sense to think it was not important. 
Pity was one of the feelings I hated, pity on me in specific. Do I look weak? Sad? So much that makes you feel bad about me? Not only that it made people feel normal to look down at you, and emphasizes on the words "looking at you". Just how much I hated it, I later realized when I went to college, I based all my reactions in a simple moral law, "I don't hurt you as much I wouldn't like you to hurt me", of course I didn't know it exactly as that, but I always followed unconsciously. My hate of pity essentially became a lack of sympathy for others, 
everytime someone told me about their little sad lives, I couldn't avoid to think what should I do? Should I say sorry? Should I try to make you laugh? Should I just stay in silent until you leave? My main approach to those situations were to simply try and find some solution to their problems, somehow, I was told I always minimize their problem. 
CHPATER 3: 
I've been in love before, I think. In my 20 years of life, I've had 4 relationship, ones better than others. Each one of them taught me a big lesson about relationship and how humans work. My 2nd relationship, I met her at school, new room, new school, new people, I saw her, she saw me, boy finds girl, how predictable. We started dating and making out in front of everyone, back in the day I didn't thought about it, now on the other hand, I couldn't feel more despicable. She ended up breaking up with me, my stupid mind didn't understand that the feeling that was on my body, was only on mine, she had other feelings. Everytime I kissed her was to simply feel connection, some electrical feeling going through my whole body, made me want more, made to never let it go, I loved it. She didn't feel the same at all, and broke my heart and mind with the words: "I don't love you". Once again, I felt humiliated and people started to feel pity on me. I learned she liked someone else from our class. She was already dating him after a week. I felt destroyed, pathetic, useless, less, stupid. But I couldn't do anything and neither show my 
emotions to anyone, so they stayed on my mind. Not like I went on depression anyways, I simply learned that people don't feel the same as you even if they like you. 
Right after that, heartbroken, a new girl entered our class, old friend, new lover. She was all over me, she liked me. We started dating, met her parents, siblings, family, went to birthday parties, kiss, make out on my house, sex(of the unexperienced type), plans for the future, etc. It was it, there I was, with everything I wanted, everything I needed, time has passed and I didn't hate her, I got used to her so much I didn't need more, why would I keep looking when I already had her? Is she perfect? No, but it was okay, because I like her and she likes me. Another point for my gullible self, she was the kind of making up stories about her life, about how terrible she had it before meeting me, constant problems with her friends, and constant pranks to "test" me. Never thought she would do the same to me that she did to her ex. Accused me of being the worst piece of shit on earth, someone who needs to stop breathing the air he gets for being the worst type of man a 
society could have. Once again, I was destroyed, but this time not only my personal image was being defamed, but she and my best friend at the time, started dating, days after she broke up with me. 
Right after this event, I couldn't stop thinking about it, day after day, I think it lasted months and years, where I couldn't wake up and not think about what she did to me, I even started to think I deserved it, it was my fault, it was my karma or destiny(at the beginning I used to believe in all these stuff but continuing with my atheism, it was obviously I concluded these are simply not real). I had to escape the feeling, the memory in someway, I decided to join a club. Basketball, Football, Soccer, Volleyball, all these were disgusting to me, the only thought of 
having to team up with people made me reject it completely, there was a sport who I inclined to do though, Swimming. Not like I knew how to swim, but I guess at the time I simply wanted to see what my body could do. I throw myself there to learn and with the possibility to drown(not like I was suicidal, but the chance was there, made me feel alive). The coach was 
understanding, she let me stay on the club 
knowing I wasn't prepared to compete, I was lucky once again. I ended up learning my own way, therefore I started to enjoy it. Swimming, full body exercise, the closes activity humans can perform to feel like flying. Feeling myself floating, able to move in any direction I want, as long I hold up my breath. I loved it. 
My passion for swimming ended that same year, I never returned to the club, but I kept it as a hobby and my personal safe activity to do every now and then when I need to disconnect from 
the world. 
CHAPTER 4: 
Music was one of the few things I depend from others to enjoy. You only enjoy the things you can perform, I can only listen to music, but if I was able to create it, that would be a different type of enjoyment, a better one, maybe. Music like for many others was essential for life. Taking reference from my sister, I ended up preferring rock music. Later on I found my own style, my own band, and my own taste. I was able to dance it, to enjoy it, to feel pleasure from 
it. I love songs that I'm able to sing, and with a strong lyrics meaning. 
Embarrassed, there were few moments | actually felt like this, I know I can feel it. Everytime I was expected to do something and I ended up doing not enough as expected, made me feel nauseous, not wanting to be there, to dissappear. I became so afraid of it, I often tried to avoid anyone from looking at me everytime I do something. Ended wishing to be some kind of ghost, that nobody notices, unfortunately for me, people always noticed me. 
When I was growing up, I found a friend group that lasted more than the usual. Some people change, some people left the group, but some others stayed, some others were friends of friends, and somehow I was just there. I don't remember why, how did I ended up there? what did I do to be here? After my friend and ex stabbed me from the back, the last thing I wanted was to make new friends, or even stay with the ones I had at the time, but they stayed with me, once again, I felt the luckiest man alive. 
Time has passed, and I was still thinking about the past event, I was better though, after so much reflection, I concluded, my life, is my choice, my acts, my feelings, I can control who I 
am, who am I? Was the question, question I need to answer or more specifically, to develop. So I decided to change, to be the person I wanted to be. I was dreaming. 
Then, I met her, my biggest waste of time. 
CHAPTER 5: 
Met her online like most people do these days, two years younger than me, she was still in high school while I was already on college. She once again, wanted me. And I wanted her to want me. We talked we didn't have much in common but we both were starving for love and desire. She was perfect for a specific kind of men, catholic, loyal, sober, marrying plans, having children plans, full commitment and full disposition. I felt lucky for some time. But everything has its cons, she was far, far away from me. Not as far as another country, but far enough to make my wallet cry. I was young and stupid enough to 
take my whole day to just go see her, giving her my time, money, and love. It was okay for some time, with her, I learned what is to feel loved, what can I expect from someone who really waits for you. Once again, everything has its cons. Everytime we discuss, whether because of her opinion in certain subject, or something in the relationship she didn't like, we never got into an agreement. Understanding was not in her dictionary, and I know it was from her side, since I change many points of view I had because of her, not that she changed my mind, but because I knew that would make her happy. She loved me, I had to do it in returned. But, 
communication problems kept coming, 
everything I said was some excuse, everytime I talked and show her why she was wrong, never accepted her error. Made me feel unhappy, and herself unhappy. Breaking up was on my mind for some time, she was holding on me, I was able to feel her arms around for me to not go, to stay with her doesn't matter how unhappy our lives were and will be if we stayed together. I knew it had to end. I was afraid, because I know how it feels when someone breaks your heart, when someone wants to leave you, you may 
think it's because they don't love you anymore, and that's true, but sometimes it's because it's the right thing to. Sometimes people are too blind or in denial to know they are not happy, and the main reason it's simply people don't always fit together. 
She cried, cried over texted, called me all night, I couldn't stop feeling so bad, that I made some mistake, that I was hurting the person who once loved me so much. We talked over it, I accepted to get back. Days after that, she broke up with me, telling me I was right, made me felt good again. She knows now, it was for the best. 
I stayed alone, alone in my new adventure, what do I want? What am I looking for? She was not the one and I knew she wasn't it, the feeling of my 2nd relationship came back to my mind, kissing someone just to feel the desire of wanting more, true desire and love from my behalf to the other person. 
CHAPTER 6: 
Alienation, probably the one I have recently felt so far. Disconnect from my peers, friends and 
everyone I met. Everyone was the same at times, haven't met anyone like me, made me think I was indeed the weird one. People usually need to feel they belong somewhere, to find connection within themselves in society. Unfortunately for me, feeling that I belong was null. The dilemma was if I even needed it. First I wondered why, why I don't find like I belong somewhere, not my country, not my ethnicity, not my friend group, not in my own house. 
College reminds me the place I choose to be. I got accepted to all the colleges I applied to, didn't apply to ivy leagues universities, so I don't brag about it. After all, college is the same everywhere, and so far, its the best place I've ever been. Lucky to be able to go, lucky to be part of a reduce population who had the opportunity to go. I had it easy, university is place where you share ideas, I had to learn to stop having fear to look stupid, the material was supposed to be hard, not like I ever had a problem academically, now that I remember, I was always told I was smart, by my parents, by my classmates, by the teachers, never let that to go over me neither, in fact I somewhat hated it, 
since made people look at me and even praise me(not a bad feeling when that happened but it simply felt wrong). It made people who I considered friends to only look at my as some kind of tool they could use. Never fought it, I simply didn't got attached to people who depended from others. Once again, I compared myself to others. 









